----------------------- Page 1-----------------------

                                                           Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                           http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

                                      The Trumpet of the Swan  

                                                             

                                               Chapter 1    Sam  
  
      Walking back to camp through the swamp, Sam wondered whether to tell his father what he  
had seen.  
      ‘I know one thing,” he said to himself. “I’m going back to that little pond again tomorrow.  
And I’d like to go alone. If I tell my father what I saw today, he will want to go with me. I’m not  
sure that’s a very good idea.”  
      Sam was eleven. His last name was Beaver. He was strong for his age and had black hair and  
dark eyes like an Indian. Sam walked like an Indian, too, putting one foot straight in front of the  
other  and  making  very  little  noise.  The  swamp  through  which  he  was  traveling  was  a  wild  
place—there was no trail, and it was  boggy underfoot, which made walking difficult. Every four  
or five minutes Sam took his compass out of his pocket and checked his course to make sure he  
was headed in a westerly direction. Canada is a big place. Much of it is wilderness. To get lost in  
the woods and swamps of western Canada would be a serious matter.  
      As  he  trudged on,  the boy’s  mind was  full  of the wonder of  what he  had seen. Not  many  
people in the world have seen the  nest  of a Trumpeter Swan. Sam  had found one on the lonely  
pond on this day in spring. He had seen the two great white birds with their long white necks and  
black bills. Nothing he had ever seen before in all his life had made him feel quite the way he felt,  
on that wild little pond, in the presence of those two enormous swans. They were so much bigger  
than any bird he had ever seen before. The nest was big, too—a mound of sticks and grasses. The  
female was sitting on eggs; the make glided slowly back and forth, guarding her.  
      When Sam reached camp, tired and hungry,  he  found  his father frying a couple of fish for  
lunch.  
      “Where have you  been?” asked Mr. Beaver.  
      “Exploring,” replied Sam. “I walked over to a pond about a mile and a half from here. It’s the  
one we see from the air as we’re coming in. It isn’t much of a place—nowhere near as big as this  
lake we’re on.”  
      “Did you see anything over there?” asked his father.  
      “Well,” said Sam, “it’s a swampy pond with a lot of reeds and cattails. I don’t think it would  
be any good for fishing. And it’s hard to get to—you have to cross a swamp.”  
      “See anything?” repeated Mr. Beaver.  
      “I saw a muskrat,” said Sam, “and a few Red-winged Blackbirds.”  
      Mr. Beaver looked up from the wood stove, where the fish were sizzling in a pan.    
      “Sam,”  he  said,  “I  know  you  like  to  go  exploring.  But  don’t  forget—these  woods  and  
marshes are not like the country around home in Montana. If you ever go over to that pond again,  
be careful you don’t get lost. I don’t like you crossing swamps. They’re  treacherous. You could  
step into a soggy place and get bogged down, and there wouldn’t be anybody to pull you out.”  
      “I’ll  be  careful,”  said  Sam.  He  knew  perfectly  well  he  would  be  going  back  to  the  pond  
where the swans were. And he had no intention of getting lost in the woods. He felt relieved that  
he had not told his father about seeing the swans, but he felt queer about it, too. Sam was not a sly  
boy, but he was odd in one respect: he liked to keep things to himself. And he liked being alone,  

----------------------- Page 2-----------------------

                                                               Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                               http://www.foxitsoftware.com             For evaluation only. 

particularly when he was in the woods. He enjoyed the life on his father’s cattle ranch in the Sweet  
Grass country in Montana. He loved his mother. He loved Duke, his cow pony. He loved riding  
the range. He loved watching the guests who came to board at the Beaver’s ranch every summer.  
      But the thing he enjoyed most in life was these camping trips in Canada with his father. Mrs.  
Beaver  didn’t  care  for  the  woods,  so  she  seldom  went  along—it  was  usually  just  Sam  and  Mr.  
Beaver. They would  motor to the border and cross into Canada. There Mr. Beaver would hire a  
bush pilot to fly them to the lake where his camp was, for a few days of fishing and  loafing and  
exploring. Mr. Beaver did most of the fishing and loafing. Sam did the exploring. And then the  
pilot  would  return  to  take  them  out.  His  name  was  Shortly.  They  would  hear  the  sound  of  his  
motor and run out and wave and watch him glide down onto the lake and taxi his plane in to the  
dock.  These  were  the  pleasantest  days  of  Sam’s  life,  these  days  in  the  woods,  far,  far  from  
everywhere—no  automobiles,  no  roads,  no  people,  no  noise,  no  school,  no  homework,  no  
problems, except the problem of getting lost. And, of course, the problem of what to be when he  
grew up. Every boy has that problem.    
      After supper that evening, Sam and his father sat for a while on the porch. Sam was reading a  
bird book.  
      “Pop,”  said  Sam,  “do  you  think  we’ll  be  coming  back  to  camp  again  about  a  month  from  
now—I mean, in about thirty-five days or something like that?”    
      “I guess so,” replied Mr. Beaver. “I certainly hope so. But why thirty-five days? What’s so  
special about thirty-five days?”  
      “Oh,  nothing,”  said  Sam.  “I  just  thought  it  might  be  very  nice  around  here  in  thirty-five  
days.”  
      “That’s the craziest thing I ever heard of,” said Mr. Beaver. “It’s nice here all the time.”  
      Sam  went  indoors.  He  knew  a  lot  about  birds,  and  he  knew  it  would  take  a  swan  about  
thirty-five days to hatch her eggs. He hoped he could be at the pond to see the young ones when  
they came out of the eggs.  
      Sam kept a diary—a daybook about his life. It was just a cheap notebook that was always by  
his bed. Every night, before he turned in, he would write in the book. He wrote about things he  
had done, things he had seen, and thoughts he had had. Sometimes he drew a picture. He always  
ended  by  asking  himself  a  question  so  he  would  have  something  to  think  about  while  falling  
asleep. On the day he found the swan’s nest, this is what Sam wrote in his diary:  
  
      I saw a pair of trumpeter swans today on a small pond east of camp. The female has a nest  
with  eggs  in  it.  I  saw  three,  but  I’m  going  to  put  four  in  the  picture—I  think  she  was  laying  
another one. This is the greatest discovery I ever made in my entire life. I did not tell Pop. My bird  
book says baby swans are called cygnets. I am going back tomorrow to visit the great swans again.  
I heard a fox bark today. Why does a fox bark? Is it because he is mad, or worried, or hungry, or  
because he is sending a message to another fox?  Why does a fox bark?  
  
Sam closed his  notebook, undressed,  crawled into  his bunk, and lay there with his eyes  closed,  
wondering why a fox barks. In a few minutes he was asleep.    
  
  
  

----------------------- Page 3-----------------------

                                                            Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                            http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

                                            Chapter 2    The Pond  
  
      The  pond  Sam  had  discovered  on  that  spring  morning  was  seldom  visited  by  any  human  
being. All winter, snow had covered the ice; the pond lay cold and still under its white blanket.  
Most of the time there wasn’t a sound to be heard. The frog was asleep. The chipmunk was asleep.  
Occasionally a jay  would cry out. And sometimes at night the fox would bark—a high,  rasping  
bark. Winter seemed to last forever.    
      But  one  day  a  change  came  over  the  woods  and  the  pond.  Warm  air,  soft  and  kind,  blew  
through the trees. The ice, which  had softened during the night, began to  melt. Patches of open  
water appeared.  All the creatures that lived in  the  pond  and in the  woods  were  glad to  feel the  
warmth. They heard and felt the breath of spring, and they stirred with new life and hope. There  
was a good, new smell in the air, a smell of earth waking after its long sleep. The frog, buried in  
the  mud  at  the  bottom  of  the  pond,  knew  that  spring  was  here.  The  chickadee  knew  and  was  
delighted (almost everything delights a chickadee). The vixen, dozing in her den, knew she would  
soon  have  kits.  Every  creature  knew  that  a  better,  easier  time  was  at  hand—warmer  days,  
pleasanter nights. Trees were putting out green buds; the buds were swelling. Birds began arriving  
from the south. A pair of ducks flew in. The Red-winged Blackbird arrived and scouted the pond  
for  nesting  sites.  A  small  sparrow  with  a  white  throat  arrived  and  sang,  “Oh,  sweet  Canada,  
Canada, Canada!”  
      And if you had been sitting by the pond on that first warm day of spring, suddenly, toward  
the  end  of  the  afternoon,  you  would  have  heard  a  stirring  sound  high  above  you  in  the  air—a  
sound like the sound of trumpets.  
      “Ko-hoh, ko-hoh!”  
      And if you had looked up, you would have seen, high overheard, two great white birds. They  
flew swiftly, their legs stretched out straight behind, their long white necks stretched out ahead,  
their powerful wings beating steady and strong. “Ko-hoh, ko-hoh, ko-hoh!” A thrilling noise in the  
sky, the trumpeting of swans.  
      When the birds spotted the  pond,  they began circling, looking the place  over  from  the air.  
Then they glided down and came to rest in the water, folding their long wings neatly along their  
sides  and  turning  their  heads  this  way  and  that  to  study  their  new  surroundings.  They  were  
Trumpeter Swans, pure white birds with black bills. They had liked the looks of the swampy pond  
and had decided to make it their home for a while and raise a family.    
      The two swans were tired from the long flight. They were glad to be down out of the sky.  
They paddled slowly about and then began feeding, thrusting their necks into the shallow water  
and pulling roots and plants from the bottom. Everything about the swans was white except their  
bills and their feet; these were black. They carried their heads high. The pond seemed a different  
place because of their arrival.  
      For the next few days, the swans rested. When they were hungry, they ate. When they were  
thirsty—which  was  a  great  deal  of  the  time—they  drank.  On  the  tenth  day,  the  female  began  
looking around to find a place to build her nest.    
  
      In the spring of the year, nest-building is uppermost in a bird’s mind” it is the most important  
thing there is. If she picks a good place, she stands a good chance of hatching her eggs and rearing  
her young. If she picks a poor place, she may fail to raise a family. The female swan knew this;  

----------------------- Page 4-----------------------

                                                           Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                           http://www.foxitsoftware.com          For evaluation only. 

 she knew the decision she was making was extremely important.    
      The two swans first investigated the upper end of the pond, where a stream flowed slowly in.  
It was pleasant there, with reeds and bulrushes. Red-winged Blackbirds were busy nesting in this  
part of the pond, and a pair of Mallard Ducks were courting. Then the swans swam to the lower  
end of the pond, a marsh with woods on one side and a deer meadow on the other. It was lonely  
here. From one shore, a point of land extended out into the pond. It was a sandy strip, like a little  
peninsula . And at the tip of it, a few feet out into the water, was a tiny island, hardly bigger than a  
dining table. One small tree grew on the island, and there were rocks and ferns  and grasses.    
      “Take a look at this!” exclaimed the female, as she swam round and around.  
      “Ko-hoh!” replied her husband, who liked to have someone ask his advice.  
      The swan stepped cautiously out onto the island. The spot seemed made to order—just right  
for a nesting place. While the male swan floated close by, watching, she snooped about until she  
found  a  pleasant  spot  on  the  ground.  She  sat  down,  to  see  how  it  felt  to  be  sitting  there.  She  
decided it was the right size for her body. It was nicely located, a couple of feet from the water’s  
edge. Very convenient. She turned to her husband.  
      “What do you think?” she said.  
      “An ideal location!” he replied. “A perfect place! And I will tell you why it’s a perfect place,”  
he continued, majestically. “If an enemy—a fox or coon or a coyote or a skunk—wanted to reach  
this spot with murder in his heart, he’d have to enter the water and get wet. And before he could  
enter the water, he’d have to walk the whole length of that point of land. And by that time we’d  
 see him or hear him, and I would give him a hard time.  
      The male stretched out his great wings, either feet from tip to tip, and gave the water a might  
clout to show his strength. This made him feel better right away. When a Trumpeter Swan hits an  
enemy with his wing, it is like being hit by a baseball bat. A male swan, by the way, is called a  
“cob.” No one knows why, but that’s what he’s called. A good many animals have special names: a  
male goose is called a gander, a male cow is called a bull, a male sheep is called a ram, a male  
chicken is called a rooster, and so on. Anyway, the thing to remember is that a male sawn is called  
a cob.      
      The cob’s wife pretended not to notice that her husband was showing off, but she saw it, all  
right, and she was proud of his strength and his courage. As husbands go, he was a good one.  
      The cob watched his beautiful wife sitting there on the tiny island. To his great joy, he saw  
her begin to turn slowly round and around, keeping always in the same spot, treading the mud and  
grass. She was making the first motions of nesting. First she squatted down in the place she had  
chosen.  Then  she  twisted  round  and  around,  tamping  the  earth  with  her  broad  webbed  feet,  
hollowing  it  out  to  make  it  like  a  saucer.  Then  she  reached  out  and  pulled  twigs  and  grasses  
toward her and dropped them at her sides and under her tail, shaping the nest to her body.  
      The cob floated close to his mate. He studied every move she made.  
      “Now another medium-sized stick, my love,” he said. And she poked her splendid long white  
graceful neck as far as it would go, picked up a stick, and placed it at her side.  
      “Now another bit of coarse grass,” said the cob, with great dignity.  
      The  female  reached  for  grasses,  for  moss,  for  twigs—anything  that  was  handy.  Slowly,  
carefully, she built up the nest until she was sitting on a big grassy mound. She worked at the task  
for a couple of hours, then knocked off for the day and slide into the pond again, to take a drink  
and have lunch.  

----------------------- Page 5-----------------------

                                                           Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                           http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

      “A fine start!” said the cob, as he gazed back at the nest. “A perfect beginning! I don’t know  
how you managed it so cleverly.”  
      “It  comes  naturally,”  replied  his  wife.  “There’s  a  lot  of  work  to  it,  but  on  the  whole  it  is  
pleasant work.”  
      “yes,”  said  the  cob.  “And  when  you’re  done,  you  have  something  to  show  for  your  
trouble—you have a swan’s nest, six feet across. What other bird can say that?”  
      “Well,” said his wife, “maybe an eagle can say it.”  
      “Yes, but in that case it wouldn’t be a swan’s nest, it would be an eagle’s nest, and it would  
be high up in some old dead tree somewhere, instead of right down near the water, with all the  
conveniences that go with water.”  
      They both laughed at this. Then they began trumpeting and splashing and scooping up water  
and throwing it on their backs, darting about as though they had suddenly gone crazy with delight.  
      “Ko-hoh! Ko-hoh! Ko-hoh!” they cried.  
      Every wild creature within a mile and a half of the pond heard the trumpeting of the swans.  
The fox heard, the raccoon heard, the skunk heard. One pair of ears heard that did not belong to a  
wild creature. But the swans did not know that.  
  

                                            Chapter 3    A Visitor  
      One day, almost a week later, the swan slipped quietly into her nest and laid an egg. Each day  
she tried to deposit one egg in the nest. Sometimes she succeeded, sometimes she didn’t. There  
were now three eggs, and she was ready to lay a fourth.  
      As  she  sat  there,  with  her  husband,  the  cob,  floating  gracefully  nearby,  she  had  a  strange  
feeling  that  she  was  being  watched.  It  made  her  uneasy.  Birds  don’t  like  to  be  stared  at.  They  
particularly dislike being stared at when they are on a nest. So the swan twisted and turned and  
peered everywhere. She gazed intently at the point of land that jutted out into the pond near the  
nest. With her sharp eyes, she searched the nearby shoe for signs of an intruder. What she finally  
saw gave her the surprise of her life. There, seated on a log on the point of land, was a small boy.  
He was being very quiet, and he had no gun.    
      “Do you see what I see?” the swan whispered to her husband.    
      “No. What?”  
      “Over there. On that log. It’s a boy! Now what are we going to do?”  
      “How did a boy get here?” whispered the cob. “We are deep in the wilds of Canada. There  
are no human beings for miles around.”  
      “That’s what I thought too,” she replied. “But if that isn’t a boy over there on that log, my  
name isn’t Cygnus Buccinator.”  
      The cob was furious. “I didn’t fly all the way north into Canada to get involved with a boy,”  
he said. “We came here to this  idyllic spot, this remote little hideaway, so we could enjoy some  
well-deserved privacy.”    
      “Well,” said his wife, “I’m sorry to see the boy, too, but I must say he’s behaving himself. He  
sees  us,  but  he’s  not  throwing  stones.  He’s  not  throwing  sticks.  He’s  not  messing  around.  He’s  
simply observing.”  
      “I  do  not  wish  to  be  observed,”  complained  the  cob.  “I  did  not  travel  all  this  immense  
distance   into  the   heart   of   Canada  to  be   observed.   Furthermore,  I   don’t   want  you   to  be  
observed—except by me. You’re laying an egg—that is, I hope you are—and you are entitled to  

----------------------- Page 6-----------------------

                                                           Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                           http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

privacy.  It has been  my  experience that all boys throw stones and sticks—it is their nature. I’m  
going over and strike that boy with my powerful wing, and he’ll think he has been hit with a billy  
club, I’ll knock him cold!”  
      “Now, just  wait a minute!” said the swan. “There’s no  use starting a fight. This boy is  not  
bothering me at the moment. He’s not bothering you either.”  
      “But how  did he  get here?” said the cob, who was  no longer talking in a whisper but  was  
beginning  to  shout.  “How  did  he  get  here?  Boys  can’t  fly,  and  there  are  roads  in  this  part  of  
Canada. We’re fifty miles from the nearest highway.”  
      “Maybe he’s lost,” said the swan. “Maybe he’s starving to death. Maybe he wants to rob the  
nest and eat the eggs, but I doubt it. He doesn’t look hungry. Anyway, I’ve started this nest, and I  
have three beautiful eggs, and the boys behaving himself at the moment, and I intend to go right  
ahead and try for a fourth egg.”  
      “Good luck, my love!” said the cob. “I shall be here at your side to defend you if anything  
happens. Lay the eggs!”  
      For the next hour, the cob paddled slowly round and around the tiny island, keeping watch.  
His  wife  remained  quietly  on  the  nest.  Sam  sat  on  his  log,  hardly  moving  a  muscle.  He  was  
spellbound at the sight of the swans. They were the biggest water birds he had ever seen. He had  
heard their trumpeting and had searched the woods and swamps until he had found the pond and  
located the nest. Sam knew enough about birds to know that these were Trumpeters. Sam always  
felt  happy  when  he  was  in  a  wild  place  among  wild  creatures.  Sitting  on  his  log,  watching  the  
swans, he had the same good feeling some people get when they are sitting in church.  
      After he had watched for an hour, Sam got up. He walked slowly and quietly away, putting  
one foot straight ahead of the other, Indian-fashion, hardly making a sound. The swans watched  
him go. When the female left the nest, she turned and looked back. There, lying safely in the soft  
feathers at the bottom of the nest, was the fourth egg. The cob waddled out onto the island and  
looked in the nest.  
      “A masterpiece!” he said. “An egg of supreme beauty and perfect proportions. I would say  
that egg is almost five inches in length.”  
      His wife was pleased.  
  
      When  the swan had laid  five eggs, she  felt satisfied. She gazed at them  proudly.  Then she  
settled herself on the nest to keep her eggs warm. Carefully, she reached down with her bill and  
poked each egg until it was in just the right spot to receive the heat from her body. The cob cruised  
around close by, to keep her company and protect her from enemies. He knew that a fox prowled  
somewhere in the woods; he had heard him barking on nights when the hunting was good.  
      Days passed, and still the swan sat quietly on the five eggs. Nights passed. She sat and sat,  
giving her warmth to the eggs. No one disturbed her. The boy was gone—perhaps he would never  
come back. Inside of each egg, something was happening that she couldn’t see: a little swan was  
taking shape. As the weeks went by, the days grew longer, the nights grew shorter. When a rainy  
day came, the swan just sat still and let it rain.      
      “My dear,” said her husband, the cob, one afternoon, “do you never find your duties onerous  
or irksome? Do you never tire of sitting in one place and in one position, covering the eggs, with  
no diversions, no pleasures, not escapades, or capers? Do you never suffer from boredom?”  
      “No,” replied his wife. “Not really.”  

----------------------- Page 7-----------------------

                                                                  Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                                  http://www.foxitsoftware.com              For evaluation only. 

       “Isn’t it uncomfortable to sit on eggs?”  
       “Yes, it is,” replied the wife. “But I can put up with a certain amount of discomfort for the  
sake of bringing young swans into the world.”  
       “Do you know how many more days you must sit?” he asked.  
       “Haven’t any idea,” she said. “But I notice that the ducks at the other end of the pond have  
hatched their young  ones;  I  notice that the Red-winged  Blackbirds have  hatched  theirs, and the  
other evening I saw a Striped Skunk hunting along the shore, and she had four little skunks with  
her. So I think I must be getting near the end of my time. With any luck, we will soon be able to  
see our children—our beautiful little cygnets.”  
       “Don’t you ever feel the pangs of hunger or suffer the tortures of thirst?” asked the cob.  
       “Yes, I do,” said his mate. “As a matter of fact, I could use a drink right now.”  
       The afternoon was warm: the sun was bright. The swan decided she could safely leave her  
eggs for a few minutes. She stood up. First she pushed some loose feathers around the eggs, hiding  
them from view and giving them a warm covering in her absence. Then she stepped off the nest  
and  entered  the  water.  She  took  several  quick  drinks.  Then  she  glided  over  to  a  shallow  place,  
thrust her head underwater, and pulled up tender greens from the bottom. She next took a bath by  
tossing water over herself. Then she waddled out onto a grassy bank and stood there, preening  her  
feathers.    
  
  
  
  
  
       The swan felt good. She had no idea that an enemy was near. She failed to notice the Red Fox  
as he watched her from his hiding place behind a clump of bushes. The fox had been attracted to  
the pond by the sound of splashing water. He hoped he would find a goose. Now he sniffed the air  
and smelled the swan. Her back was turned, so he began creeping slowly toward her. She would  
be too big for him to carry, but he decided he would kill her anyway and get a tasted of blood. The  
cob, her husband, was still floating on the pond. He spied the fox first.  
  
  
  
  
      “Look out!” he trumpeted. “Look out for the fox, who is creeping toward you even as I speak,  
his eyes bright, his bushy tail out straight, his mind lusting for blood, his belly almost touching the  
ground! You are in grave danger, and we must act immediately.”  
       While the cob was making this elegant speech of warning, something happened that surprised  
everybody. Just as the fox was about to spring and sink his teeth in the swan’s neck, a stick came  
hurtling through the air. It struck the fox full on the nose, and he turned and ran away. The two  
swans  couldn’t imagine  what  had  happened.  Then they  noticed a  movement in  the bushes. Out  
stepped Sam Beaver, the boy who had visited them a month ago. Sam was grinning. In his hand he  
held another stick, in case the fox should return. But the fox was in no mood to return. He had a  
very sore nose, and he had lost his appetite for fresh swan.    
       “Hello,” said Sam in a low voice.  

----------------------- Page 8-----------------------

                                                               Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                               http://www.foxitsoftware.com             For evaluation only. 

       “Ko-hoh, ko-hoh!” replied the cob.  
       “Ko-hoh!” said his  wife. The  pond rang  with the trumpet sounds—sounds  of triumph over  
the fox, sounds of victory and gladness.  
       Sam was thrilled at the noise of swans, which some people say is like the sound of a French  
horn. He walked slowly around the shore to the little point of land near the island and sat down on  
his log. The swans now realized, beyond any doubt, that the boy was their friend. He has saved the  
swan’s life. He had been in the right place at the right time and with the right ammunition. The  
swans felt grateful. The cob swam over toward Sam, climbed out of the pond, and stood close to  
the boy, looking at him in a friendly way and arching his neck gracefully. Once, he ran his neck far  
out, cautiously, and almost touched the boy. Sam never moved a muscle. His heart thumped from  
excitement and joy.  
       The female paddled back to her nest and returned to the job of warming the eggs. She felt  
lucky to be alive.  
       That night before Sam crawled into his bunk at camp, he got out his notebook and found a  
pencil. This is what he wrote:  
         
       I don’t know of anything in the entire world more wonderful to look at than a nest with eggs  
in  it.  An  egg,  because  it  contains  life,  is  the  most  perfect  thing  there  is.  It  is  beautiful  and  
mysterious.  An  egg  is  a  far  finer  thing  than  a  tennis  ball  or  a  cake  of  soap.  A  tennis  ball  will  
always be just a tennis ball. A cake of soap will always be just a cake of soap—until it gets so  
small nobody wants it and they throw it away. But an egg will someday be a living creature. A  
swan’s egg will open and out will come a little swan. A nest is almost as wonderful and mysterious  
as an egg. How does a bird know how to make a nest? Nobody ever taught her. How does a bird  
know how to build a nest?  
  
       Sam closed his notebook, said good night to his father, blew out his lamp, and climbed into  
his  bunk.  He  lay  there  wondering  how  a  bird  knows  how  to  build  a  nest.  Pretty  soon  his  eyes  
closed, and he was asleep.  
  
  

                                             Chapter 4 The Cygnets  
  
       During the night, the swan thought she heard a pipping sound from the eggs. And in the hour  
just before dawn, she was sure she felt a slight movement under her breast, as though a tiny body  
were wiggling there. Perhaps the eggs at last were hatching. Eggs, of course, can’t wiggle, so the  
swan  decided  she  must  have  something  under  her  that  wasn’t  an  egg.  She  sat  perfectly  still,  
listening and waiting. The cob floated nearby, keeping watch.  
       A little swan enclosed in an egg has a hard time getting out. It never  would get out if Nature  
had not provided it with two important things: a powerful neck-muscle and a small dagger-tooth  
on the tip of its bill. This tooth is sharp, and the baby swan uses it to pick a hole in the tough shell  
of  the  egg.  Once  the  hole  is  made,  the  rest  is  easy.  The  cygnet  can  breathe  now;  it  just  keeps  
wiggling until it wiggles free.    
       The cob was expecting to become a father any minute now. The idea of fatherhood made him  
feel poetical and proud. He began to talk to his wife.  

----------------------- Page 9-----------------------

                                                              Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                              http://www.foxitsoftware.com            For evaluation only. 

      “Here I glide, swanlike,” he said, “while earth is bathed in wonder and beauty. Now, slowly,  
the light of day comes into our sky. A mist hangs low over the pond. The mist rises slowly, like  
steam  from  a  kettle,  while  I  glide,  swanlike,  while  eggs  hatch,  while  young  swans  come  into  
existence. I  glide and  glide. The light strengthens.  The  air becomes warmer. Gradually the  mist  
disappears. I glide, I glide, swanlike. Birds sing their early song. Frogs that have  croaked in the  
night stop croaking and are silent. Still I glide, ceaselessly, like a swan.”    
      “Of course you glide like a swan,” said his wife. “How else could you glide? You couldn’t  
glide like a moose, could you?”    
      “Well,  no.  That  is  quite  true.  Thank  you,  my  dear,  for  correcting  me.”  The  cob  felt  taken  
aback  by  his  mate’s  commonsense  remark.  He  enjoyed  speaking  in  fancy  phrases  and  graceful  
language, and he liked to think of  himself as gliding swanlike. He decided  he’d better do  more  
gliding and less talking.  
      All morning long, the swan heard the pipping of the shells. And every once in a while, she  
felt something wriggle beneath her in the nest. It was an odd sensation. The eggs had been quiet  
for so many, many days—thirty-five days in all—and now at last they were stirring with life. She  
knew that the proper thing to do was to sit still.  
      Late in the afternoon, the swan was rewarded for her patience. She gazed down, and there,  
pushing  her  feathers  aside,  came  a  tiny  head—the  first  baby,  the  first  cygnet.  It  was  soft  and  
downy.  Unlike its  parents, it as  gray.  Its  feet and  legs  were the color  of  mustard.  Its eyes  were  
bright. On unsteady legs, it pushed its way up until it stood beside its mother, looking around at  
the world it was seeing for the first time. Its mother spoke softly to it, and it was glad to hear her  
voice. It was glad to hear her voice. It was glad to breathe the air, after bring cooped up so long  
inside an egg.    
      The cob, who had been watching intently all day, saw the little head appear. His heart leapt  
up with joy. “A cygnet!” he cried. “A cygnet at last! I am a father, wit hall the pleasant duties and  
awesome responsibilities of fatherhood. O blessed little son of mine, how good it is to see your  
face peering through the protecting feathers of your mother’s breast, under these fair skies, with  
the pond so quiet and peaceful in the long light of afternoon!”  
      “What  makes  you  think  it’s  a  son?”  inquired  his  wife.  “For  all  you  know,  it’s  a  daughter.  
Anyway, it’s a cygnet, and it’s alive and healthy. I can feel others under me, too. Perhaps we’ll get  
a good hatch. We may even get all five. We’ll know by tomorrow.”    
      “I have every confidence that we will,” said the cob.  
      Next  morning  very  early,  Sam  Beaver  crawled  out  of  his  bunk  while  his  father  was  still  
asleep. Sam dressed and lit a fire in the stove. He fried a few strips of bacon, toasted two slices of  
bread, poured a glass of milk, and sat down and ate breakfast. When he was through, he found a  
pencil and paper and wrote a note.  
  
      I have gone for a walk. Will be back for lunck.  
  
      Sam  left  the  note  where  his  father  would  find  it;  then  he  took  his  field  glasses  and  his  
compass, fastened his hunting knife to his belt, and set out through the woods and over the swamp  
to the pond where the swans lived.  
      He approached the pond cautiously, his field glasses slung over his shoulder. It was still only  
a  little  after  seven  o’clock;  the  sun  was  pale,  the  air  was  chill.  The  morning  smelled  delicious.  

----------------------- Page 10-----------------------

                                                        Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                        http://www.foxitsoftware.com        For evaluation only. 

When  he reached his log, Sam sat down and adjusted  his glasses. Seen through the glasses, the  
nesting swan appeared to be only a few feet away. She was sitting very close, not moving. The cob  
was nearby. Both birds were listening and waiting. Both birds saw Sam, but they didn’t mind his  
being there—in fact, they rather liked it. They were surprised at the field glasses, though.    
      “They boy seems to have very big eyes today,” whispered the cob. “His eyes are enormous.”  
      “I think those big eyes are actually a pair of field glasses,” replied the swan. “I’m not sure,  
but I think that when a person looks through field glasses, everything appears closer and bigger    
      “Will the boy’s glasses make me appear even larger than I am?” asked the cob, hopefully.  
      “I think so,” said the swan.  
      “Oh, well,  I  like that,” said the  cob. “I like that very  much. Perhaps the boy’s glasses will  
make me appear not only larger than I am but even more graceful than I am. Do you think so?”    
      “It’s possible,” said his wife, “but it’s not likely. You’d better not get  too graceful—it might  
go to your head. You’re quite a vain bird.”  
      “All swans are vain,” said the cob. “It is right for swans to feel proud, graceful—that’s what  
swans are for.”  
      Sam could  not  make out what the swans  were saying; he  merely  knew they  were having a  
conversation, and just hearing them talk stirred his blood. It satisfied him to be keeping company  
with these two great birds in the wilderness. He was perfectly happy.  
      In midmorning, when the sun had gained the sky, Sam lifted his glasses again and focused  
them  on  the  nest.  At  last  he  saw  what  he  had  come  to  see:  a  tiny  head,  thrusting  through  the  
mother’s feathers, the head of a baby Trumpeter. The youngster scrambled up onto the edge of the  
nest. Sam could see its gray head and neck, its body covered with soft down, its yellow legs and  
feet with their webs for swimming. Soon another cygnet appeared. Then another. Then the  first  
one worked his way down into his mother’s feathers again, for warmth. Then one tried to climb up  
his mother’s back, but her feathers were slippery, and he slid off and settled himself neatly at her  
side. The swan just sat and sat, enjoying her babies, watching them gain the use of their legs.  
      An hour went by. One of the cygnets, more daring than the others, left the nest and  teetered  
around  on  the  shore  of  the  little  island.  When  this  happened,  the  mother  swan  stood  up.  She  
decided the time had come to lead her children into the water.  
      “Come on!” she said. “And stay together! Note carefully what I do. Then you do the same.  
Swimming is easy.”  
      “One, two, three, four, five,” Sam counted. “One, two, three, four, five,” Sam counted. “One,  
two, three, four, five. Five cygnets, just as sure as I’m alive!”    
      The cob, as he saw his children approach the water, felt that he should act like a father. He  
began by making a speech.  
      “Welcome  to  the  pond  and  the  swamp  adjacent!”  he  said.  “Welcome  to  the  world  that  
contains  this  lonely  pond,  this  splendid  marsh,  unspoiled  and  wild!  Welcome  to  sunlight  and  
shadow, wind and weather; welcome to water! The water is a swan’s particular element, as you  
will  soon  discover.  Swimming  is  no  problem  for  a  swan.  Welcome  to  danger,  which  you  must  
guard against—the vile fox with his stealthy tread and sharp teeth, the offensive otter who swims  
up under you and tries to grab you by the leg, the stinking skunk who hunts by night and blends  
with the shadows, the coyote who hunts and howls and is bigger than a fox. Beware of lead pellets  
that  lie  on  the  bottom  of  all  ponds,  left  there  by  the  guns  of  hunters.  Don’t  eat  them—they’ll  
poison you! Be  vigilant, be strong, be brave, be graceful, and always follow me! I will go first,  

----------------------- Page 11-----------------------

                                                              Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                              http://www.foxitsoftware.com            For evaluation only. 

then you will come along in single file, and your devoted mother will bring up the rear. Enter the  
water quietly and confidently.”    
      The mothers sawn, glad the speech was over, stepped into the water and called her little ones.  
The cygnets gazed for a second at the water, then tottered forward, gave a jump, and were afloat.  
The  water felt  good. Swimming was simple—nothing to it. The  water was good to  drink. Each  
baby  dipped  up  a  mouthful.  Their  happy  father  arched  his  long  graceful  neck  over  and  around  
them, protectively. Then  he set  off  very slowly,  with the cygnets  following along in single file.  
Their mother brought up the rear.    
      “What a sight!” Sam said to himself. “What a terrific sight! Seven Trumpeters all in line, five  
of them just  out of the egg.  This is  my lucky day.” He hardly noticed how stiff  he had become  
from sitting so long on the log.  
      Like all fathers, the cob wanted to show off his children to somebody. So he led the cygnets  
to where Sam was. They all stepped out of the water and stood in front of the boy—all but the  
mother swan. She stayed behind.  
      “Ko-hoh!” said the cob.  
      “Hello!” said Sam, who hadn’t expected anything like this and hardly dared breathe.  
      The first cygnet looked at Sam and said, “Beep.” The second cygnet looked at Sam and said,  
“Beep.”  The  third  cygnet  greeted  Sam  the  same  way.  So  did  the  fourth.  The  fifth  cygnet  was  
different. He opened his mouth but didn’t say a thing. He made an effort to say beep, but no sound  
came. So instead, he stuck his little neck out, took hold of one of Sam’s shoelaces, and gave it a  
pull. He tugged at the lace for a moment. It came untied. Then he let it go. It was like a greeting.  
Sam grinned.  
      The cob now looked worried. He ran his long white neck between the cygnets and the boy  
and guided the babies back to the water and to their mother.    
  
  
  
  
      “Follow me!” said the cob. And he led them off, full of grace and bursting with pride.  
      When the mother thought her young ones had had enough swimming and might be chilly, she  
stepped out onto a sandy shore and squatted down and called them. They quickly followed her out  
of  the  pond  and  burrowed  down  under  her  feathers  to  get  warm.  In  a  moment  there  wasn’t’  a  
cygnet in sight.  
      At noon, Sam got up and walked back to camp, his mind full of what he had seen. Next day,  
he and his father heard Shorty’s motor in the sky and saw the plane approaching. They grabbed  
their duffel bags. “Good-bye, camp! See you in the fall!” said Mr. Beaver, as he shut the door and  
gave  it  a  pat.  He  and  Sam  climbed  into  the  plane  and  were  soon  aloft,  on  their  way  home  to  
Montana. Mr. Beaver did not know that his son had seen a Trumpeter Swan bring off her young  
ones. Sam kept the matter to himself.    
      “If I live to be a hundred years old,” thought Sam, “I’ll never forget what it feels like to have  
my shoelace pulled by a baby swan.”    
      Sam and his father were late arriving home at the ranch, but late as it was, Sam got out his  
diary before he turned in for the night. He wrote:  
      There are five cygnets. They are sort of a dirty brownish-gray color, but very cute. Their legs  

----------------------- Page 12-----------------------

                                                             Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                             http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

are yellow, like mustard. The old cob led them right up to me. I wasn’t expecting this, but I kept  
very still. Four of the babies said beep. The fifth one tried to, but he couldn’t. He took hold of my  
shoelace as though it was a worm and gave it a tug and untied it. I wonder what I’m going to be  
when I grow up?  
  
      He switched off the light, pulled the sheet up over his head, and fell asleep wondering what  
he was going to be when he grew up.    
  

                                              Chapter 5      Louis  
  
      One  evening  a  few  weeks  later,  when  the  cygnets  were  asleep,  the  swan  said  to  the  cob,  
“Have you noticed anything different about one of our children, the one we call Louis?”  
      “Different?” replied the cob. “In what way is Louis different from his brothers and sisters?  
Louis looks all right to me. He is growing well; he swims and dives beautifully. He eats well. He  
will soon have his flight feathers.”  
      “Oh, he looks all right,” said the swan. “And heaven knows he eats enough. He’s healthy and  
bright and a great swimmer. But have you ever heard him use his voice or say anything? Have you  
ever heard him utter a single beep or a single burble?    
      “Come to think of it, I never have,” replied the cob, who was beginning to look worried.  
      “Have you ever heard Louis say good night to us, as the others do? Have you ever heard him  
say good morning, as the others do in their charming little way, burbling and beeping?”  
      “Now that you mention it, it never have,” said the cob. “Goodness! What ate you getting at?  
Do you wish to believe that I have a son who is defective in any way? Such a  revelation would  
distress  me  greatly.  I  want  everything  to  go  smoothly  in  my  family  life  so  that  I  can  glide  
gracefully  and  serenely,  now  in  the  prime  of  my  life,  without  being  haunted  by  worry  or  
disappointment. Fatherhood is quite a burden, at best. I do not want the added strain of having a  
defective child, a child that has something the matter with him.”  
      “Well,” said the wife, “I’ve been watching Louis lately. It is my opinion the little fellow can’t  
talk. I’ve never heard him make one sound. I think he came into the world lacking a voice. If he  
had a void, he’d use it, same as the others do.”  
      “Why, this is terrible!” said the cob. “This is distressing beyond words. This is a very serious  
matter.”  
      His wife  looked at  him in amusement. “It’s not too serious  now,” she said. “But it  will be  
serious two or three years from now when Louis falls in love, as he will surely do. A young male  
swan will be greatly handicapped in finding a mate if he is unable to say ko-hoh, ko-hoh, or if he  
can’t utter the usual endearments to the young female of his choice.”    
      “Are you sure?” asked the cob.  
      “Certainly I’m sure,” she replied. “I can remember perfectly well the springtime, years ago,  
when you fell in love with me and began chasing after me. What a sight you were, and what a lot  
of noise you made! It was in Montana, remember?”  
      “Of course I remember,” said the cob.  
      “Well, the thing that attracted me most to you was your voice—your wonderful voice.”  
      “It was?” said the cob.  
      “Yes.  You  had  the  finest,  most  powerful,  most  resonant  voice  of  any  of  the  young  make  

----------------------- Page 13-----------------------

                                                            Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                            http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

swans in the Red Rock Lakes National Wildlife Refuge in Montana.”    
      “I did?” said the cob.  
      “Yes, indeed. Every time I heard you say something in that deep voice of yours, I was ready  
to go anywhere with you.”  
      “You  were?” said the cob. He was obviously delighted with his wife’s praise. It tickled his  
vanity and made him feel great. He had always fancied himself as having a fine voice, and now to  
hear it from his wife’s own lips was a real thrill. In the pleasure of the moment, he forgot all about  
Louis and thought entirely of himself. And, of course, he did remember that enchanted springtime  
on the lake in Montana when he had fallen in love. He remembered how pretty the swan had been,  
how young and innocent she seemed, how attractive, how desirable. Now he realized fully that he  
would never have been able to woo her and win her if he had been unable to say anything.    
      “We’ll not worry about Louis for the time being,” said the swan. “He’s still very young. But  
we must watch him next winter when we are in Montana for the season. We must say together as a  
family until we see how Louis makes out.”  
      She  walked  over  to  where  her  sleeping  cygnets  were  and  settled  down  next  to  them.  The  
night was chill. Carefully, she lifted one wing and covered the cygnets with it. They stirred in their  
sleep and drew close to her.  
      The cob stood quietly, thinking about what his wife had just told him. He was a brave, noble  
bird, and already he was beginning to work out a plan for his little son Louis.  
      “If it’s really true that Louis has no voice,” said the cob to himself, “then I shall provide him  
with a device of some sort, to enable him to make a lot of noise. There must be some way out of  
this difficulty. After all, my son is a Trumpeter Swan; he should have a voice like a trumpet. But  
first I will test him to make certain that what his mother says is true.”    
  
      The cob was unable to sleep that night. He stood on one leg, quietly, but sleep never came.  
Next morning, after everyone had enjoyed a good breakfast, he led Louis apart from the others.    
      “Louis,” he said, “I wish to speak to you alone. Let’s just you and I take a swim by ourselves  
to the other end of the pond, where we can talk privately without being interrupted.”    
      Louis  was  surprised  by  this.  But  he  nodded  his  head  and  followed  his  father,  swimming  
strongly in his wake. He did not understand why his father wanted to speak to him alone, without  
his brothers and sisters.    
      “Now!” said the cob, when they reached the upper end of the pond. “Here we are, gracefully  
floating,  supremely  buoyant,  at  some  distance  from  the  others,  in  perfect  surroundings—a  fine  
morning, with the pond quiet except for the song of the blackbirds, making the air sweet.”    
      “I wish my father would get to the point,” thought Louis.  
      “This is an ideal place for our conference,” continued the cob. “There is something I feel I  
should discuss with you very candidly and openly—something that concerns your future. We need  
not range over the whole spectrum of bird life but just confine our talk to the one essential thing  
that is before us on this unusual occasion.”  
      “Oh, I wish my father would get to the point,” thought Louis, who by this time was getting  
very nervous.  
     “It has come to my attention, Louis,” continued the cob, “that you rarely say anything. In fact,  
I can’t recall ever hearing you utter a sound. I have never heard you speak, or say ko-hoh, or cry  
out, either in fear or in joy. This is most unusual for a young Trumpeter. It is serious. Louis, me  

----------------------- Page 14-----------------------

                                                        Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                         http://www.foxitsoftware.com        For evaluation only. 

hear you say beep. God ahead, say it! Say beep!”  
      Poor Louis! While his father watched, he took a deep breath, opened his mouth, and let the  
air out, hoping it would say beep. But there wasn’t a sound.    
      “Try again, Louis!” said his father. “Perhaps you’re not making enough of an effort.”  
      Louis tried again. It was no use. No sound came from his throat. He shook his head, sadly.  
      “Watch me!” said the cob. He raised his neck to its full height and cried ko-hoh so loud it was  
head by every creature for miles around.    
      “Now let me hear you go beep!” he commanded. “Say beep, Louis—loud and clear!”  
      Louis tried. He couldn’t beep.  
      “Let me hear you burble. He couldn’t do it. No sound came.  
      “Well,” said the cob, “I guess it’s no use. I guess you are dumb.”  
      When he heard the word “dumb,” Louis felt like crying. The cob saw that he had hurt Louis’s  
feelings.  “You  misunderstand  me,  my  son,”  he  said  in  a  comforting  voice.  “You  failed  to  
understand my use of the word ‘dumb’, which has two meanings. If I had called you a dumb duck  
or a dumb bunny, that would have meant that I had a poor opinion of your intelligence. Actually, I  
think you are perhaps the brightest, smartest, most intelligent of all my cygnets. Words sometimes  
have two meanings; the word ‘dumb’ is such a word. A person who can’t see is called blind. A  
person who can’t hear is called deaf. A person who can’t speak is called dumb. That simply means  
he can’t say anything. Do you understand?  
      Louis nodded his head. He felt better, and he was grateful to his father for explaing that the  
words had two meanings. He still felt awfully unhappy, though.  
      “Do  not  let  an  unnatural  sadness  settle  over  you,  Louis,”  said  the  cob.  “Swans  must  be  
cheerful, not sad; graceful, not awkward; brave, not cowardly. Remember that the world is full of  
youngsters  who  have  some  sort  of  handicap  that  they  must  overcome.  You  apparently  have  a  
speech defect. I am sure you will overcome it, in time. There may even be some slight advantage,  
at you age, in not being able to say anything. It compels you to be a good listener. The world is  
full of talkers, but it is rare to find anyone who listens. And I assure you that you can pick up more  
information when you are listening than when you are talking.” (Do you agree?)  
      “May father does quite a lot of talking himself,” thought Louis.  
      “Some people,” continued the cob, “go through life chattering and making a lot of noise with  
their  mouth;  they  never  rally  listen  to  anything—they  are  too  busy  expressing  their  opinions,  
which are often unsound or based on bad information. Therefore, my son, be of good cheer! Enjoy  
life; learn to fly! Eat well; drink well! Use your ears; use your eyes! And I promise that someday I  
will make it possible for you to use your voice. There are mechanical devices that convert air into  
beautiful sounds. One such device is called a trumpet. I saw a trumpet once, in my travels. I think  
you may need a trumpet in order to live a full life. I’ve never known a Trumpeter Swan to need a  
trumpet,  but  you  case  is  different.  I  intend  to  get  you  what  you  need.  I  don’t  know  how  I  will  
manage this, but in the fullness of time it shall be accomplished. And now that our talk has come  
to  a  close,  let  us  return  gracefully  to  the  other  end  of  the  pond,  where  your  mother  and  your  
brothers and sisters await us!”  
      The cob turned and swam off. Louis followed. It had been an unhappy morning for him. He  
felt  frightened at being  different  from  his brothers and sisters. It scared  him to be  different. He  
couldn’t  understand why he had come into the world without a voice. Everyone else seemed to  
have  a  voice.  Why  didn’t  he?  “Fate  is  cruel,”  he  thought.  “Fate  is  cruel  to  me.”  Then  he  

----------------------- Page 15-----------------------

                                                           Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                           http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

remembered that his father had promised to help, and he felt better. Soon they joined the others,  
and everyone started water games, and Louis joined in, dipping and splashing and diving twisting.  
Louis could splash water farther than any of the others, but he couldn’t shout while he was doing  
it. To be able to shout while you are splashing water is half the fun.    
  

                                        Chapter 6: Off to Montana  
      At   the   end   of   the   summer,   the   cob   gathered   his   family   around   him   and   made   an  
announcement. “Children,” he began, “I have news for you. Summer is drawing to a close. Leaves  
are turning red, pink, and pale yellow. Soon the leaves will fall. The time has come for us to leave  
this pond. The time has come for us to go.”  
      “Go?” cried all the cygnets except Louis.  
      “Certainly,” replied their father. “You children are old enough to learn the facts of life, and  
the  principal  fact  of  our  life  right  now  is  this:  we  can’t  stay  in  this  marvelous  location  much  
longer.”  
      “Why not?” cried all the cygnets except Louis.  
      “Because summer is over,” said the cob, “and it is the way of swans to leave their nesting site  
at summer’s end and travel south to a milder place where the food supply is good. I know that you  
are all fond of this pretty pond, this marvelous marsh, these reedy shores and restful retreats. You  
have found life pleasant and amusing here. You have learned to dive and swim underwater. You  
have  enjoyed  our  daily  recreational  trips  when  we  formed  in  line,  myself  in  front  swimming  
gracefully, like a locomotive, and your charming mother bringing up the rear, like a caboose.  （载 
货火车最后一节的）守车. Daylong, you have listened and learned. You have avoided the odious  
otter and the cruel coyote. You have listened to the little owl that says co-co-co-co. You have heard  
the  partridge  say  kwit-kwit.  At  night  you  have  dropped  off  to  sleep  to  the  sound  of  frogs—the  
voices of the night. But these pleasures and pastimes, these adventures, these games and frolics,  
these beloved sights and sounds must come to an end. All things come to an end. It is time for us  
to go.”  
      “Where will we go?” cried all the cygnets except Louis. “Where will we go, ko-hoh, ko-hoh?  
Where will we go, ko-hoh, ko-hoh?”  
      “We will fly south to Montana,” replied the cob.  
     “What is Montana?” asked all the cygnets except Louis. “What is Montana—banana, banana?  
What is Montana—banana, banana?  
      “Montana,” said their father, “is a state of the Union. And there, in a lovely valley surrounded  
by high mountains, are the Red Rock Lakes, which nature has designed especially for swans. In  
these  lakes  you  will  enjoy  warm  water,  arising  from  hidden  springs.  Here,  ice  never  forms,  no  
matter how cold the nights. In the Red Rock Lakes, you will find other Trumpeter Swans, as well  
as the lesser waterfowl—the geese and the ducks. There are few enemies. No gunners. Plenty of  
muskrat houses. Free grain. Games every day. What more can a swan ask, in the long, long cold of  
winter?”  
      Louis listened to all this in amazement. He wanted to ask his father how they would learn to  
fly  and  how  they  would  find  Montana  even  after  they  learned  to  fly.  He  began  to  worry  about  
getting lost. But he wasn’t able to ask any questions. He just had to listen.  
      One of his brothers spoke up.  
      “Father,” he said, “you said we would fly  south. I don’t know how to fly. I’ve never been up  

----------------------- Page 16-----------------------

                                                           Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                           http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

in the air.”    
      “True,” replied the cob. “But flying is largely a matter of having the right attitude—plus, of  
course, good wing feathers. Flying consists of three parts. First, the takeoff, during which there is  
a lot of fuss and commotion, a lot of splashing and rapid beating of the wings. Second, the ascent,  
or gaining of altitude—this requires hard work and fast wing action. Third, the leveling-off, the  
steady  elevated  flight,  high  in  air,  wings  beating  slower  now,  beating  strongly  and  regularly,  
carrying  us  swiftly  and  surely  from  zone  to  zone  as  we  cry  ko-hoh,  ko-hoh,  with  all  the  earth  
stretched out far below.”  
      “It sounds very nice,” said the cygnet, “but I’m not sure I can do it. I might get dizzy way up  
there-if I look down.”  
     “Don’t’ look down!” said his father. “Look straight ahead. And don’t lose your nerve. Besides,  
swans do not get dizzy—they feel wonderful in the air. They feel exalted.”  
      “What does ‘exalted’ mean?” asked the cygnet.  
      “It means  you  will feel strong,  glad, firm,  high,  proud,  successful, satisfied,  powerful, and  
elevated—as though you had conquered life and had a high purpose.”  
      Louis listened to all this with great attention. The idea of flying frightened him. “I won’t be  
able to say ko-hoh,” he thought. “I wonder whether a swan can fly if he has no voice and cant’ say  
ko-hoh.”  
      “I think,” said the cob, “the best plan is for me to demonstrate flying to you. I will make a  
short exhibition flight while you watch. Observe everything I do! Watch me pump my neck up and  
down  before  the  takeoff!  Watch  me  test  the  wind  by  turning  my  head  this  way  and  that!  The  
takeoff must be into the wind—it’s much easier that way. Listen to the noise I make trumpeting!  
Watch how I raise my great wings! See how I beat them furiously as I rush through the water with  
my feet going like mad! This frenzy will last for a couple of hundred feet, at which point I will  
suddenly be  airborne,  my wings still chopping the air with terrific force but  my feet  no longer  
touching the water! Then watch what I do! Watch how I stretch my long white elegant neck out  
ahead of me until it has reached its full length! Watch how I retract my feet and allow them to  
stream out behind, full-length, until they extend beyond my tail! Hear my cries as I gain the upper  
air and start trumpeting! See  how strong and steady  my wingbeat  has become!  Then  watch  me  
bank and turn, set my wings, and glide down! And just as I reach the pond again, watch how shoot  
my feet out in front of me and use them for the splashdown, as though they were a pair of water  
skis! Having watched all this, then you can join me, and your mother, too, and we will all make a  
practice  flight  together,  until  you  get  the  hang  of  it.  Then  tomorrow  we  will  do  it  again,  and  
instead of returning to the pond, we will head south to Montana. Are you ready for my exhibition  
flight?”  
      “Ready!” cried all the cygnets except Louis.  
      “Very well, here I go!” cried the cob.  
      As the others watched, he swam downwind to the end of the pond, turned, tested the wind,  
pumped his neck up and down, trumpeted, and after a rush of two hundred feet, got into the air  
and began gaining altitude. His long white neck stretched out ahead. His big black stretched out  
behind. His wings had great power. The beat slowed as he settled into sustained flight. All eyes  
watched.  Louis  was  more  excited  than  he  had  ever  been.  “I  wonder  if  I  can  really  do  it?”  he  
thought. “Suppose I fail! Then the  others will  fly away, and I  will be left here all alone on this  
deserted pond, with winter approaching, with no father, no mother, no sister, no brothers, and no  

----------------------- Page 17-----------------------

                                                             Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                             http://www.foxitsoftware.com            For evaluation only. 

food to eat when the pond freezes over. I will die of starvation. I’m scared.”  
      In a few minutes, the cob glided down out of the sky and skidded to stop on the pond. They  
all  cheered.  “Ko-hoh,  ko-hoh,  beep  beep,  beep  beep!”  Al  lbut  Louis.  He  had  to  express  his  
approval simply by beating his wings and splashing water in his father’s face.    
      “All  right,”  said  the  cob.  “You’ve  seen  how  it’s  done.  Follow  me,  and  we’ll  give  it  a  try.  
Extend yourselves to the utmost, do everything in the proper order, never forget for a minute that  
you are swans and therefore excellent fliers, and I’m sure all will be well.”  
      They all swam  downwind to the  end  of the  pond.  They pumped their necks  up and  down.  
Louis pumped his harder than any of the others. They tested the wind by turning their heads this  
way and that. Suddenly the cob signaled for the start. There was a tremendous commotion—wings  
beating, feet racing, water churned to a froth. And presently, wonder of wonders, there were seven  
swans in the air—two  pure  white ones and five dirty gray ones. The takeoff was accomplished,  
and they started gaining altitude.  
      Louis was the first of the  young cygnets to become airborne, ahead  of all his brothers and  
sisters. The  minute his feet lifted clear of the  water, he  knew he could  fly. It was a tremendous  
relief—as well as a splendid sensation.    
      “Boy!”  he  said  to  himself.  “I  never  knew  flying  could  be  such  fun.  This  is  great.  This  is  
sensational. This is superb. I feel exalted, and I’m not dizzy. I’ll be able to get to Montana with the  
rest of the family. I may be defective, but at least I can fly.”  
      The seven great birds stayed aloft about half an hour, then returned to the pond, the cob still  
in the lead. They all had a drink to celebrate the successful flight. Next day they were up early. It  
was a beautiful  fall  morning,  with  mist rising  from the  pond and the trees shining in all colors.  
Toward the end of the afternoon, as the sun sank low in the sky, the swans took off from the pond  
and  began  their  journey  to  Montana.  “This  way!”  cried  the  cob.  He  swung  to  his  left  and  
straightened  out  on  a  southerly  course.  The  others  followed,  trumpeting  as  they  went.  As  they  
passed over the camp where Sam Beaver was, Sam heard them and ran out. He stood watching as  
they grew smaller and smaller in the distance and finally disappeared.  
      “What was it?” asked his father, when Sam returned indoors.  
      “Swans,” replied Sam. “They’re head south.”  
      “We’d better do the same,” said Mr. Beaver. “I think Shortly will be here tomorrow to take us  
out.”    
      Mr. Beaver lay down on his bunk. “What kind of swans were they?” he asked.  
      “Trumpeters,” said Sam.  
      “That’s funny,” said Mr. Beaver. “I thought Trumpeter Swans had quit migrating. I thought  
they spent the whole year on the Red Rock Lakes, where they are protected.”    
      “Most of ‘em do,” replied Sam. “But not all of ‘em.”  
      It was bedtime. Sam got out his diary. This is what he wrote:  
        
      I  heard  the  swans  tonight.  They  are  headed  south.  It  must  be  wonderful  to  fly  at  night.  I  
wonder whether I’ll ever see one of them again. How does a bird know how to get from where he  
is to where he wants to be?  
  

                                           Chapter 7    School Days  
      A few days after the swans arrived at their winter home on the Red Rock Lakes, Louis had an  

----------------------- Page 18-----------------------

                                                      Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                      http://www.foxitsoftware.com       For evaluation only. 

idea. He decided that since he was unable to use his voice, he should learn to read and write. “If  
I’m  defective in  one respect,” he said to  himself, “I should try and  develop  myself along  other  
lines. I will learn to read and write. Then I will hang slate around my neck and carry a chalk pencil.  
In that way I will be able to communicate with anybody who can read.”  
     Louis liked company, and he already had many friends on the lakes. The place was a refuge  
for water birds—swans, geese, ducks, and other waterfowl. They lived there because it was a safe  
place and because the water stayed warm even in the coldest winter weather. Louis  was greatly  
admired for his ability as a swimmer. He liked to compete with other cygnets to see who could  
swim underwater the greatest distance and stay down the longest.  
     When Louis had fully made up his mind about learning to read and write, he decided to visit  
Sam Beaver and get help from him. “Perhaps,” thought Louis, “Sam will let me go to school with  
him, and the teacher will show me how to write.” The idea excited him. He wondered whether a  
young swan would be accepted in a classroom of children. He wondered whether it was hard to  
learn to read. Most of all, he wondered whether he could find Sam. Montana is a big state, and he  
wasn’t even sure Sam lived in Montana, but he hoped he did.    
     Next  morning,  when  his  parents  were  not  looking,  Louis  took  off  into  the  air.  He  flew  
northeast.  When  he  came  to  the  Yellowstone  River,  he  followed  it  to  the  Sweet  Grass  country.  
When he saw a town beneath him, he landed next to the schoolhouse and waited for the boys and  
girls to be let out. Louis looked at every boy, hoping to see Sam. But Sam wasn’t there.    
     “Wrong  town,  wrong  school,”  thought  Louis.  “I’ll  try  again.”  He  flew  off,  found  another  
town, and located the school, but all the boys and girls had gone home for the day.  
     “I’ll just  have a look around anyway,” thought  Louis. He  didn’t  dare walk down the  main  
street, for fear somebody would shoot him. Instead, he took to the air and circled around, flying  
low and looking carefully at every boy in sight. After about ten  minutes,  he saw a ranch  house  
where a boy was splitting wood near the kitchen door. The boy had black hair. Louis glided kown.    
     “I’m lucky,” he thought. “It’s Sam.”  
     When  Sam  saw  the  swan,  he  laid  down  his  ax  and  stood  perfectly  still.  Louis  walked  up  
timidly, then reached down and untied Sam’s shoelace.  
     “Hello!” said Sam in a friendly voice.  
     Louis tried to say ko-hoh, but not a sound came from his throat.    
     “I  know  you,”  said  Sam.  “You’re  the  one  that  never  said  anything  and  used  to  pull  my  
shoelaces.”  
     Louis nodded.  
     “I’m glad to see you,” said Sam. “What can I do for you?  
     Louis just stared straight ahead.  
     Louis shook his head.  
     “Thirsty?”  
     “Louis shook his head.  
     “Do you want to stay overnight with us, here at the ranch?” asked Sam.  
     Louis nodded his had and jumped up and down.  
     “O.K.,”  said  Sam.  “We  have  plenty  of  room.  It’s  just  a  question  of  getting  my  father’s  
permission.”  
     Sam picked up his ax, laid a stick of wood on the chopping block, and split the stick neatly  
down the middle. He looked at Louis.    

----------------------- Page 19-----------------------

                                                         Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                         http://www.foxitsoftware.com          For evaluation only. 

      “There’s something wrong with your voice, isn’t there?” he asked.  
      Louis nodded, pumping his neck up and down hard. He knew Sam was his friend, although  
he didn’t know that Sam had once saved his mother’s life.  
      In a few minutes Mr. Beaver rode into the yard on a cow pony. He got off and tied his pony to  
a rail. “What have you got there?” he asked Sam.    
      “It’s a young Trumpeter Swan,” said Sam. “He’s only a few months old. Will you let me keep  
him awhile?”  
      “Well,”  said  Mr.  Beaver,  “I  think  it’s  against  the  law  to  hold  one  of  these  wild  birds  in  
captivity. But I’ll phone the game warden and see what he says. If he says yes, you can keep him.”  
      “Tell  the  warden  the  swan  has  something  the  matter  with  him,”  called  Sam  as  his  father  
started toward the house.  
      “What’s wrong with him?” asked his father.  
      “He has a speech problem,” replied Sam. “Something’s wrong with his throat.”  
      “What are you talking about? Who ever head of a swan with a speech problem?”  
      “Well,”  said  Sam,  “this  is  a  Trumpeter  Sawn  that  can’t  trumpet.  He’s  defective.  He  can’t  
make a sound.”    
      Mr. Beaver looked at his son as though he didn’t know whether to believe him or not. But he  
went into the house. In a few minutes he came back. “The warden says you can keep the young  
swan here for a while if you can help him. But sooner or later the bird will have to go back to the  
Red Rock Lakes, where he belongs. The warden said he wouldn’t let just anybody have a young  
swan,  but  he’d  let you   have  one  because  you  understand  about  birds,  and  he  trusts  you.  That’s  
quite a compliment, son.”    
      Mr.  Beaver  looked  pleased.  Sam  looked  happy.  Louis  was  greatly  relieved.  After  a  while  
everyone went in to supper in the kitchen of the ranch house. Mrs. Beaver allowed Louis to stand  
beside Sam’s chair. They fed him some corn and some oats, which tasted good. When Sam was  
ready  for bed,  he  wanted Louis to sleep in  his room  with  him, but Mrs. Beaver said  no. “He’ll  
mess up the room. He’s no canary; he’s enormous. Put the bird out in the barn. He can sleep in one  
of the empty stalls; the horses won’t mind.”  
      Next morning, Sam took Louis to school with him. Sam rode his pony, and Louis flew along.  
At the school house, the  other children were amazed to see this  great bird, with  his  long neck,  
bright   eyes,   and   big   feet.   Sam   introduced   him   to   the   teacher   of   the   first   grade,   Mrs.  
Hammerbotham,  who  was  short  and  fat.  Sam  explained  that  Louis  wanted  to  read  and  write  
because he was unable to make any sound with his throat.    
      Mrs. Hammerbotham stared at Louis. Then she shook her head. “No birds!” she said. “I’ve  
got enough trouble.”  
      Sam looked disappointed.  
      “Please, Mrs. Hammerbotham,” he said. “Please let him stand in your class and learn to read  
and write.”  
      “Why  does  a  bird  need  to  read  and  write?”  replied  the  teacher.  “Only  people   need  to  
communicate with one another.”  
      “That’s not quite true, Mrs. Hammerbotham,” said Sam, “if you’ll excuse me for saying so. I  
have  watched  birds  and  animals  a  great  deal.  All  birds  and  animals  talk  to  one  another—they  
really have to, in order to  get along. Mothers have to talk to their young. Males have to talk to  
females, particularly in the spring of the year when they are in love.”  

----------------------- Page 20-----------------------

                                                         Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                         http://www.foxitsoftware.com         For evaluation only. 

      “In  love?” said Mrs. Hammerbotham, who seemed to perk up at this suggestion. “What do  
you  know about love?”  
      Sam blushed.  
      “What kind of a bird is he?” she asked.  
      “He’s a young Trumpeter Swan,” said Sam. “Right now he’s sort of a dirty gray color, but in  
another year he’ll be the most beautiful thing you ever saw—pure white, with black bill and black  
feet. He was hatched last spring in Canada and now lives in the Red Rock Lakes, but he can’t say  
ko-hoh the way the other swans can, and this puts him at a terrible disadvantage.”  
      “Why?” asked the teacher.    
      “Because  it  does,”  said  Sam.  “If  you  wanted  to  say  ko-hoh  and  couldn’t  make  a  single  
solitary sound, wouldn’t you feel worried?”    
      “I don’t want to say ko-hoh,” replied the teacher. “I don’t even know what it means. Anyway,  
this  is  all  just  foolishness,  Sam.  What  makes  you  think  a  bird  can  learn  to  read  and  write?  It’s  
impossible.”  
      “Give him a chance!” replied Sam. “He is well behaved, and he’s bright, and  he’s got this  
very serious speech defect.”  
      “What’s his name?”  
      “I don’t know,” replied Sam.  
      “Well,” said Mrs. Hammerbotham, “if he’s coming into my class, he’s got to have a name.  
Maybe we can find out what it is.” She looked at the bird. “Is your name Joe?”  
      Louis shook his head.  
      “Jonathan?”  
      Louis shook his head.  
      “Donald?”  
      Louis shook his head again.  
      “Is your name Louis?” asked Mrs. Hammerbotham.    
      Louis nodded his head very hard and jumped up and down and flapped his wings.    
      “Great  Caesar’s  ghost!”  cried  the  teacher.  “Look  at  those   wings!  Well,  his  name  is  
Louis—that’s for sure. All right, Louis, you may join the class. Stand right here by the blackboard.  
And don’t mess up the room, either! If you need to go outdoors for any reason, raise one wing.”  
      Louis  nodded.  The  first-graders  cheered.  They  liked  the  looks  of  the  new  pupil  and  were  
eager to see what he could do.  

      “Quiet, children!” said Mrs. Hammerbotham sternly. “We’ll start with the letter A .”  

      She picked up a piece of chalk and made a big A on the blackboard. “Now you  try it, Louis!”  

      Louis  grabbed  a  piece  of  chalk  in  his  bill  and  drew  a  perfect  A  right  under  the  one  the  

teacher had drawn.    
      “You see?” said Sam. “He’s an unusual bird.”  
      “Well,”  said  Mrs.  Hammerbotham,  “A  is  easy.  I’ll  give  him  something  harder.”  She  wrote  

CAT on the board. “Let’s see you write cat, Louis!”  

      Louis wrote cat.  

----------------------- Page 21-----------------------

                                                                      Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                                      http://www.foxitsoftware.com                 For evaluation only. 

       “Well  cat  is  easy,  too,”  muttered  the  teacher. “ Cat  is  easy  because  it  is  short.  Can  anyone  
think of a word that is longer than cat?  
       “ Catastrophe,” said Charlie Nelson, who sat in the first row.    
       “Good!” said Mrs. Hammerbotham. “That’s a good hard word. But does anyone know what it  
means? What is a catastrophe?”  
       “An earthquake,” said one of the girls.  
       “Correct!” replied the teacher. “What else?”  
       “War is a catastrophe,” said Charlie Nelson.  
       “Correct!” replied Mrs. Hammerbotham. “What else is?”  
       A very small, redheaded girl named Jennie raised her hand.  
       “Yes, Jennie? What is a catastrophe?”  
       In a very small,  high  voice, Jennie said, “When you get ready to  go on a picnic with your  
father  and  mother  and  you  make  peanut-butter  sandwiches  and  jelly  rolls  and  put  them  in  a  
thermos  box  with  bananas  and  an  apple  and  some  raisin  cookies  and  paper  napkins  and  some  
bottles of pop and a few hard-boiled eggs and then you put the thermos box in your car and just as  
you are starting out it starts to rain and your parents say there is no point in having a picnic in the  
rain, that’s catastrophe.”    
       “Very good, Jennie,” said Mrs. Hammerbotham. “It isn’t as bad as an earthquake, and it isn’t  
as bad as war. But when a picnic gets called on account of rain, it is a catastrophe for a child, I  
guess. Anyway, catastrophe is a good word. No bird can write that word, I’ll bet. If I can teach a  
bird to write catastrophe, it’ll be big news all over the Sweet Grass country. I’ll get my picture in  
Life magazine. I’ll be famous.”  
       Thinking         of     all     these      things,      she      stepped        to     the     blackboard          and      wrote  

CATASTROPHE.    

       “O.K., Louis, let’s see you write that!”  
       Louis picked up a fresh piece of chalk in his bill. He was scared. He took a good look at the  
word. “A long word,” he thought, “is really no harder than a short one. I’ll just copy one letter at a  
time, and pretty soon it will be finished. Besides, my life is a catastrophe. It’s a catastrophe to be  

without a voice.” Then he began writing. CATASTROPHE, he wrote, making each letter    

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

----------------------- Page 22-----------------------

                                                           Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                           http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

very neatly. When he got to the last letter, the pupils clapped and stamped their feet and banged on  
their  desks,  and  one  boy  quickly  made  a  paper  airplane  and  zoomed  it  into  the  air.  Mrs.  
Hammerbotham rapped for order.  
      “Very  good,  Louis,”  she  said.  “Sam,  it’s  time  you  went  to  your  own  classroom—you  
shouldn’t be in my room. Go and join the fifth grade. I’ll take care of your friend the swan.”  
      Back in his own room, Sam sat down at his desk, feeling very happy about the way things  
had turned out. The fifth-graders were having a lesson in arithmetic, and their teacher, Miss Annie  
Snug, greeted Sam with a question. Miss Snug was young and pretty.  
      “Sam,  if  a  man  can  walk  three  miles  in  one  hour,  how  many  miles  can  he  walk  in  four  
hours?”  
      “It would depend on how tired he got after the first hour,’ replied Sam.    
      The other pupils roared. Miss Snug rapped for order.  
      “Sam  is  quite  right,’  she  said.  “I  never  looked  at  the  problem  that  way  before.  I  always  
supposed that man could walk twelve miles in four hours, but Sam may be right: that man may not  
feel so spunky after the first hour. He may drag his feet. He may slow up.”    
      Albert Bigelow raised his hand. “My father knew a man who tried to walk twelve miles, and  
he died of heart failure,” said Albert.  
      “Goodness!” said the teacher. “I suppose that could happen, too.”    
      “Anything can happen in four hours,” said Sam. “A man might develop a blister on his heel.  
Or he might find some berries growing along the road and stop to pick them. That would slow him  
up even if he wasn’t tired or didn’t have a blister.    
      “It  would  indeed,”  agreed  the  teacher. “Well,  children,  I  think  we  have  all  learned  a  great  
about arithmetic this morning, thanks to Sam Beaver. And now, here is a problem for one of the  
girls in the room. If you are feeding a baby from a bottle, and you give the baby eight ounces of  
milk in one feeding, how many ounces of milk would the baby drink in two feedings?”    
      Linda Staples raised her hand.  
      “About fifteen ounces,” she said.  
      “Why is that?” asked Miss Snug. “Why wouldn’t the baby drink sixteen ounces?”  
      “Because he spills a little each time,” said Linda. “It runs out of the corners of his mouth and  
gets on his mother’s apron.”  
      By this time the class was howling so loudly the arithmetic lesson had to be abandoned. But  
everyone had learned how careful you have to be when dealing with figures.  
  

                                                Chapter 8 Love  
      When Louis’s father and mother discovered that Louis was missing, they felt awful. No other  
young swan had disappeared from the lakes—only Louis.  
      “The question now arises,” said the cob to his wife, “Whether or not I should go and look for  
our son. I am  disinclined to leave these attractive lakes now, in the fall of the  year, with winter  
coming on. I have, in fact, been looking forward to this time of serenity and peace and the society  
of other waterfowl. I like the life here.”  
      “There’s another little matter to consider besides your personal comfort,” said his wife. “Has  
it occurred to you that we have no idea which direction Louis went when he left? You don’t know  
where he went any more than I do. If you were to start out looking for him, which way would you  
fly?”    

----------------------- Page 23-----------------------

                                                       Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                       http://www.foxitsoftware.com        For evaluation only. 

      “Well,” replied the cob, “in the last analysis, I believe I would go south.”    
      “What do you mean, ‘in the last analysis’?” said the swan impatiently. “You haven’t analyzed  
anything. Why  do  you say ‘in the last analysis’?  And  why  do you  pick south as the  way  to go  
looking for Louis? There are other directions. There’s north, and east, and west. There’s northeast,  
southeast,  east-southeast,  west-southwest.  There’s  north  by  east,  and  east  by  north.  There’s  
south-southeast a half east, and there’s west by north a half north. The directions a young swan  
could start off in are almost too numerous to think about.”    
      So  it  was  decided  that  no  search  would  be  made.  “We’ll  just  wait  here  and  see  what  
happens,” said the cob. “I feel sure Louis will return in the fullness of time.”  
      Months went by. Winter came to the Red Rock  Lakes.  The  nights were long and  dark and  
cold. The days were short and bright and cold. Sometimes the wind blew. But the swans and geese  
and ducks were safe and happy. The warm springs that fed the lakes kept the ice from covering  
them—there were always open places. There was plenty of food. Sometimes a man would arrive  
with a bag of grain and spread the grain where the birds could get it.    
     Spring followed winter; summer followed spring. A year went by, and it was springtime again.  
Still no sign of Louis. Then one morning when Louis’s grown-up brothers were playing a game of  
water polo, one of them looked up and saw a swan approaching in the sky.  
      “Ko-hoh!” cried the cygnet. He rushed to his father and mother. “Look! Look! Look!”  
      All the waterfowl on the lake turned and gazed up at the approaching swan. The swan circled  
in the sky.  
      “It’s Louis!” said the cob. “But what is that peculiar little object hanging around his neck by a  
string? What is that?”  
      “Wait and see,” said his wife. “Maybe it’s a gift.”    
      Louis looked down from the sky and spotted what looked like his family. When he was sure,  
he glided down and skidded to a stop. His mother rushed up and embraced him. His father arched  
his neck gracefully and raised his wings in greeting. Everyone shouted “Ko-hoh!” and “Welcome  
back, Louis!” His family was overjoyed. He had been gone for a year and a half—almost eighteen  
months. He looked older and handsomer. His feathers were pure white now, instead of a dirty gray.  
Hanging by a cord around his neck was a small slate. Attached to the slate by a piece of string was  
a white chalk pencil.    
      When the family greetings were over, Louis seized the chalk in his bill and wrote “Hi, there!”  
on the slate. He held the slate out eagerly for all to see.  
      The cob stared at it. The mother swan stared at it. The cygnets stared at it. They just stared  
and stared. Words on a slate meant nothing to them. They couldn’t read. None of the members of  
his family had ever seen a slate before, or a piece of chalk. Louis’s attempt to greet his family was  
a failure. He felt as though he had  wasted a year and a half by going to school and learning to  
write. He felt keenly disappointed. And, of course, he was unable to speak. The words on the slate  
were all he could offer by way of greeting.  
      Finally his father, the cob, spoke up.  
      “Louis,  my  son,”  he  began  is  his  deep,  resonant  voice,  “this  is  the  day  we  have  long  
awaited—the day of your return to our sanctuary in the Red Rock Lakes. No one can imagine the  
extent of our joy or the depth of our emotion at seeing you again, you who have been absent from  
our midst for so long, in lands we know not of, in pursuit we can only guess at. How good it is to  
see your countenance again! We hope you have enjoyed good health during your long absence, in  

----------------------- Page 24-----------------------

                                                       Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                       http://www.foxitsoftware.com        For evaluation only. 

lands we know not of, in pursuits we can only guess at – ”  
      “You’ve  said  that  once  already,”  said  his  wife.  “You’re  repeating  yourself.  Louis  must  be  
tired after his trip, no matter where he’s been or what he’s been up to.”  
      “Very true,” said the cob. “But I must prolong  my welcoming remarks a bit longer, for my  
curiosity is aroused by that odd little object Louis is wearing around his neck and by the strange  
symbols he has placed upon it by rubbing that white thing up and own and leaving those strange  
white tracings.”  
      “Well,” said Louis’s mother, “we’re all interested in it, naturally. But Louis can’t explain it  
because he is defective and can’t talk. So we’ll just have to forget our curiosity for the moment  
and let Louis take a bath and have dinner.”  
      Everyone agreed this was a good idea.  
      Louis swam to the shore, placed his slate and his chalk pencil under a bush, and took a bath.  
When he was through, he dipped the end of one wing in the water and sorrowfully rubbed out the  
words “Hi, there!” Then he hung the slate around his neck again. It felt good to be home with his  
family. And his family had increased during the months he had spent with Sam Beaver at school.  
There  were  now six  new cygnets.  Louis’s father and  mother  had spent the summer  on a trip  to  
Canada, and while there, they had nested and hatched six little cygnets, and in the fall they had all  
joined up again at the Red Rock Lakes in Montana.    
      One day, soon after Louis’s return, the grain man stopped by with a sack of grain. Louis saw  
him and swam over. When the man spread the grain on the ground to feed the birds, Louis took off  
his  slate  and  wrote,  “Thank  you  very  much!”  He  held  the  slate  up  to  the  man,  who  appeared  
surprised.    
      “Say!” said the man. “You’re quite a bird! Where did you  learn to write?”    
      Louis erased the slate and wrote, “At school.”  
      “School?” said the grain man. “What school?”  
      “Public school,” wrote Louis. “Mrs. Hammerbotham taught me.”    
      “Never heard of her,” said the grain man. “But she must be a darned good teacher.”  
      “She is,” wrote Louis. He was overjoyed to be carrying on a conversation with a stranger. He  
realized that even though the slate was no  help with  other birds, it  was going to be a help with  
people, because people could read. This made him feel a whole lot better. Sam Beaver had given  
Louis the slate as a good-bye  present  when he left the ranch. Sam had bought the slate and the  
chalk pencil with money he had saved. Louis decided he would always carry them with him, no  
matter where he went in the world.  
      The grain man wondered whether he had been dreaming or whether he had really seen a swan  
write words on a slate. He decided to say nothing about it to anyone, for fear people might think  
he was crazy in the head.    
      For birds, spring is the time to find a mate. The warm sweet airs of spring stir strange feelings  
in  young  swan.  The  males  begin  to  notice  the  females.  They  show  off  in  front  of  them.  The  
females begin to notice the males, too, but they pretend they are not noticing anything at all. They  
act very coy.    
      Louis felt so queer one day, he knew he must be in love. And he knew which bird he was in  
love with. Whenever he swam past her, he could feel his heart beat faster, and his mind was full of  
thoughts of love and desire. He thought he had never seen such a beautiful young female swan.  
She was a trifle smaller than the others, and she seemed to have a more graceful neck and more  

----------------------- Page 25-----------------------

                                                                 Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                                 http://www.foxitsoftware.com              For evaluation only. 

attractive  ways  than  any  of  his  other  friends  on  the  lake.  Her  name  was  Serena.  He  wished  he  
could do something to attract her attention. He wanted her for his mate but was unable to tell her  
so because he couldn’t make a sound. He swam in circles around her and pumped his neck up and  
down and made a great show of diving and staying down to prove he could hold his breath longer  
than  any  other  bird.  But  the  little  female  paid  no  attention  to  Louis’s  antics.  She  pretended  he  
didn’t exist.  
       When Louis’s mother found out that Louis was courting a young female, she hid behind some  
bulrushes and watched what was going on. She could tell that he was in love by the way he acted,  
and she saw that he was having no success.  
       Once, in desperation, Louis swam up to Serena, his beloved, and made a bow. His slate, as  
usual, was around his neck. Taking the chalk pencil in his mouth, he wrote “I love you” on the  
slate and showed it to her.    
       She stared at it for a  moment, then swam away. She  didn’t  how to read, and although she  
rather liked the looks of a young cob who had something hanging around his neck, she couldn’t  
really get interested in a bird that was  unable to say anything. A  Trumpeter Swan that couldn’t  
trumpet was a bust as far as she was concerned.    
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
       When Louis’s mother saw this, she went to her husband, the cob.  
“I have news for you,” she said. “Your son Louis is in love, and the swan of his choice, the female  
of his desiring, pays no attention to him. It’s just as I predicted: Louis won’t be able to get a mate  
because he has no voice. That snippety adj.  暴躁的；傲慢的 little female he’s chasing after gives  
me a pain in the neck, the way she acts. But just the same, I’m sorry for Louis. He thinks she’s the  
greatest thing on the lake, and he can’t say, ‘Ko-hoh, I love you,’ and that’s what she’s waiting to  
hear.”  
       “Why, this is terrible news,” said the cob, “news of the most serious import. I know what it is  
like to be in love. Well do I remember how painful love can be, how exciting, and, in the event of  
unsuccess, how disappointing and doleful  寂寞的；悲哀的；阴沉的；忧郁的 lonel                                                    , sad, dark,  
heav    , bluethe days and nights. But I am Louis’s father, and I’m not going to take this situation  
lying  down.  I  shall  act.  Louis  is  a  Trumpeter  Swan,  noblest  of  all  the  waterfowl.  He  is  gay,  
cheerful,  strong,  powerful,  lusty,  good,  brave,  hansome,  reliable,  trustworthy,  a  great  flier,  a  
tremendous swimmer, fearless, patient, loyal, true, ambitious, desirous—”  
       “Just a minute,” said his wife. “You don’t need to tell me all these things. The point is, what  
are you going to do to help Louis get himself a mate?”  
       “I’m leading  up to that in  my  own  graceful way,” replied the cob. “You say that what this  
young female wants is to hear Louis say, ‘Ko-hoh, I love you’?”  
       “That’s right.”  
       “Then  she  shall  hear  it!”  exclaimed  the  cob.  “There  are  devices  made  by  men—horns,  
trumpets, musical instruments of all sorts. These devices are capable of producing sounds similar  

----------------------- Page 26-----------------------

                                                        Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                         http://www.foxitsoftware.com        For evaluation only. 

to the wild sound of our trumpeting. I shall begin a search for such a device, and if I have to go to  
the ends of the earth to find a trumpet for our young son, I shall find it at last and bring it home to  
Louis.”  
      “Well, if I may make a suggestion,” said his wife, “don’t go to the ends of the earth, go to  
Billings, Montana. It’s nearer.”  
      “Very well, I will try Billings. I shall look for a trumpet in Billings. And now, without further  
ado, I go. There is no time to lose. Springtime doesn’t last forever. Love is fleeting. Every minute  
counts.  I’m  leaving  this  instant  for  Billings,  Montana,  a  great  city  teeming  with  life  and  with  
objects made by man. Goodbye, my love! I shall return!”  
      “What are you going to use for money?” asked his practical wife. “Trumpets cost money.”  
“Leave that to me,” replied the cob. And with that, he took off into the air. He climbed steeply, like  
a jet plane, then leveled off, flying high and fast toward the northeast. His wife watched him until  
he was out of sight. “What a swan!” she murmured. “I just hope he knows what he’s doing.”  

                                       Chapter 9    The Trumpet  

      As  the  cob  flew  toward  Billings  on  his  powerful  white  wings,  all  sorts  of  troublesome  
thoughts whirled in  his  head.  The  cob had  never gone looking for a trumpet before. He  had  no  
money to pay for a trumpet. He feared he might arrive after the shops had closed for the day. He  
realized  that  in  the  whole  continent  of  North  America  he  was  undoubtedly  the  only  Trumpeter  
Swan who was on his way to a city to get a trumpet.  
      “This is a queer adventure,” he said to himself. “Yet it is a noble quest. I will do anything to  
help my son Louis—even if I run into real trouble.”  
      Toward the end of the afternoon, the cob looked ahead and in the distance saw the churches  
and factories and shops and homes of Billings. He decided to act quickly and boldly. He circled  
the city once, looking for a music store. Suddenly he spied one. It had a very big, wide window,  
solid glass. The cob flew lower and circled so he could get a better look. He gazed into the store.  
He saw a drum painted gold. He saw a fancy guitar with an electric cord. He saw a small piano.  
He  saw  banjos,  horns,  violins,  mandolins,  cymbals,  saxophones,  marimbaphones,  cellos,  and  
many other instruments. Then he saw what he wanted: he saw a brass trumpet hanging by a red  
cord.    
      “Now is my time to act!” he said to himself.             “Now is my moment for risking everything  
on one bold move, however shocking it may be to my sensibilities, however offensive it may be to  
the laws that governs the lives of men. Here I go! May good luck go with me!”  
      With that, the old cob set his wings for a dive. He aimed straight at the big window. He held  
his neck straight and stiff, waiting for the crash. He dove swiftly and hit the window going full  
speed. The glass broke. The noise was terrific. The whole store shook. Musical instruments fell to  
the floor. Glass flew  everywhere.  A salesgirl fainted.  The cob felt a twinge  of  pain as a jagged  
piece of broken glass cut into his shoulder, but he grabbed the trumpet in his beak, turned sharply  
in the air, flew back through the hole in the  window, and began climbing fast  over the roofs  of  
Billings. A few drop of blood fell to the ground below. His should hurt. But he had succeeded in  
getting what he had come for. Held firmly in his bill, its red cord dangling, was a beautiful brass  
trumpet.  
      You can imagine the noise in the music store when the cob crashed through the window. At  
the  moment the glass broke, one of the clerks was showing a bass drum to a customer, and the  

----------------------- Page 27-----------------------

                                                             Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                             http://www.foxitsoftware.com            For evaluation only. 

clerk was so startled at seeing a big white bird come flying through the window, he hit the drum a  
tremendous wallop.    
      “Bom!” went the drum.  
      “Crash!” went the splinters of flying glass.  
      When the salesgirl fainted, she fell against the keys of the piano.  
      “Rrrongee-rrrongeee-rrongee!” went the piano.  
      The owner of the store grabbed his shotgun, which went off by mistake, blasting a hole in the  
ceiling  and  sending  down  a  shower  of  plaster.  Everything  was  flying  around  and  falling  and  
making a noise.  
      “Bom!” went the drum.  
      “Plunk!” went the banjo.  
      “Rrrongee-rrrongeee-rrongee!” went the piano.  
      “Ump!” went the bull fiddle.  
      “Help!” screamed a clerk. “We’ve been robbed.  
  
  
  
      “Make  way!”  shouted  the  owner.  He  ran  for  the  door,  stepped  outside,  and  fired  another  
shot—bang! –at the disappearing bird. His shot was too late. The cob was safe in the sky, beyond  
the range of gunfire. He was headed home, toward the southwest, high above the roofs and spires  
of Billings. In his beak was the trumpet. In his heart was the pain of having committed a crime.    
      “I have robbed a store,” he said to himself. “I have become a thief. What a miserable fate for  
a bird of my excellent character and high ideals! Why did I do this? What led me to commit this  
awful crime? My past life has been blameless—a model of good behavior and correct conduct. I  
am by nature law-abiding. Why, oh, why did I do this?”    
      Then the answer came to him, as he flew steadily on through the evening sky. “I did it to help  
my son. I did it for love of my son Louis.”  
      Back in Billings, the news spread rapidly. This was the first time a swan had broken into a  
music store and made off with a trumpet. A lot of people refused to believe it had happened. The  
editor of the newspaper sent a reporter to the store to look around. The reporter interviewed the  
owner and wrote an article about the event for the paper. The article was headed:  
        
                   LARGE BIRD BREAKS INTO MUSIC STORE  
                                 INTO MUSIC STORE  
                               ______________________  
            White Swan Crashes Through Window and Makes Of With Valuable Trumpet  
Everybody in Billings bought a copy  of the paper and read all about the extraordinary event. It  
was talked about all over town. Some people believed it; others said it never could have happened.  
They said it never could have happened. They said the store owner had just invented it to get some  
publicity for his store. But the clerks in the store agreed that it had really happened. They pointed  
to the drops of blood on the floor.  
      The police came to look over the damage, which was estimated at nine hundred dollars. The  
police promised they would try to find the thief and arrest him, but the police were sorry to hear  
that the thief was a bird. “Birds are a special problem,” they said. “Birds are hard to deal with.”  

----------------------- Page 28-----------------------

                                                             Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                             http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

      Back  at  the  Red  Rock  Lakes,  Louis’s  mother  waited  anxiously  for  her  husband  to  return.  
When he showed up in the night sky, she saw that he had a trumpet with him. It was slung around  
his neck by its cord.    
      “Well,” she said, as he glided to a stop in the water, “I see you made it.”  
      “I  did,  my  dear,”  said  the  cob.  “I  traveled  fast  and  far,  sacrificed  my  honor,  and  I  have  
returned. Where is Louis? I want to give him his trumpet right away.”  
      “He’s over there sitting on a muskrat house, dreaming about that empty-headed young female  
he’s so crazy about.”  
      The cob swam over to his son and made a presentation speech.  
      “Louis,”  he  said,  “I  have  been  on  a  journey  to  the  haunts  of  men.  I  visited  a  great  city  
teeming  with  life and commerce. Whilst there, I  picked up a gift  for  you, which  I  now bestow  
upon  you  with  my  love  and  my  blessing.  Here,  Louis,  is  a  trumpet.  It  will  be  your  voice—a  
substitute  for  the  voice  God  failed  to  give  you.  Learn  how  to  blow  it,  Louis,  and  life  will  be  
smoother and richer and gayer for you! With the help of this horn, you will be able at last to say  
ko-hoh, like every other swan. The sound of music will be in our ears. You will be able to attract  
the attention of desirable young females. Master this trumpet, and you will be able to play love  
songs  for  them,  filling  them  with  ardor  and  surprise  and  longing.  I  hope  it  will  bring  you  
happiness, Louis, and a new and better life. I procured  it at some personal sacrifice to myself and  
my pride, but we won’t go into that now. The long and short of it is, I had no money; I took the  
trumpet without  paying for it. This was  deplorable. But the important thing is that you learn to  
play the instrument.”    
      So saying, the cob removed the trumpet from around his neck and hung it on Louis, alongside  
the slate and the white chalk pencil.  
      “Wear it in health!” he said. “Blow it in  happiness! Make  the  woods and the  hills and the  
marshes echo with the sounds of your youthful desire!”  
      Louis wanted to thank his father, but he was unable to say a word. And he knew it would do  
no good to write “Thank you” on the slate, because his father wouldn’t be able to read it, never  
having  had  an  education.  So  Louis  just  bobbed  his  head  and  waggled  his  tail  and  fluttered  his  
wings. The cob knew by these signs that he had found favor in the sight of his son and that the gift  
of a trumpet was acceptable.    
  

                                         Chapter 10 Money Trouble  
      Louis was the best-liked young male swan on Upper Red Rock Lake. He was also the best  
equipped. He not only had a slate and a chalk pencil around his neck, he had a brass trumpet on a  
red cord.  The  young  females were beginning to  notice  him because  he looked  entirely different  
from the other cygnets. He stood out in a crowd. None of the others carried anything with them.  
      Louis was delighted with the new trumpet. All day, the first day he had it, he tried to get it to  
make a noise. Holding the trumpet was not easy. He tried several different positions, bending his  
neck and blowing. At first, no sound came out. He blew harder and harder, puffing out his cheeks  
and getting red in the face.  
      “This is going to be tough,” he thought.  
      But then he discovered that, by holding his tongue in a certain way, he could get the trumpet  
to emit a small gasping sound. It wasn’t a very pretty noise, but at least it was a noise. It sounded a  
little like hot air escaping from a radiator.  

----------------------- Page 29-----------------------

                                                        Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                        http://www.foxitsoftware.com         For evaluation only. 

      “Puwoowf, puwoowf,” went the trumpet.  
      Louis kept at it. Finally, on the second day of trying, he got it to play a note—a clear note.  
      “Ko!” went the trumpet.  
      Louis’s heart skipped a beat when he heard it. A duck, swimming nearby, stopped to listen.  
      “Ko! Ko ee oo oooph,” went the trumpet.  
      “It will take time,” thought Louis. “I’m not going to become a trumpeter in a day, that’s for  
sure. But Rome wasn’t built in a day, and I’m going to learn to blow this horn if it takes me all  
summer.    
      Louis  had  other  problems  besides  learning  the  trumpet.  For  one  thing,  he  knew  that  his  
trumpet wasn’t paid for—it had been stolen. He didn’t like that at all. For another thing, Serena,  
the  swan  he  was  in  love  with,  had  gone  away.  She  had  left  the  lakes  with  several  othe  young  
swans and has flown north to the Snake River. Louis was afraid he might never see her again. So  
he found himself with a broken heart, a stolen trumpet, and no one to give him any lessons.  
      Whenever  Louis  was  in  trouble,  his  thoughts  turned  to  Sam  Beaver.  Sam  had  helped  him  
before; perhaps he could help him again. Besides, springtime was making him restless: he felt an  
urge to leave the lakes and fly somewhere. So he took off one morning and headed straight for the  
Bar Nothing Ranch, in the Sweet Grass country, where Sam lived.  
      Flying was not as easy as it once had been. If you’ve ever tried to fly with a trumpet dangling  
from your neck and a slate flapping in the wind and a chalk pencil bouncing around at the end of  
its  string,  you  know  how  hard  it  can  be.  Louis  realized  that  there  were  advantages  in  traveling  
light and not having too many possessions clinging to you. Nevertheless, he was a strong flier, and  
the slate and the chalk pencil and the trumpet were important to him.    
      When he reached the ranch where Sam lived, he circled once, then glided down and walked  
into the barn. He found Sam grooming his pony.    
      “Well, look who’s here!” exclaimed Sam. “You look like a traveling salesman with all that  
stuff around your neck. I’m glad to see you.”  
      Louis propped the slate up against the pony’s stall. “I’m in trouble,” he wrote.  
      What’s the matter?” asked Sam. “And where did you get the trumpet?”  
      “That’s the trouble,” wrote  Louis. “My father stole it. He gave it to  me because  I have  no  
voice. The trumpet hasn’t been paid for.”    
      Sam whistled through his teeth. Then he led the pony into his stall, tied him, came out, and  
sat down on a bale of hay. For a while he just stared at the bird. Finally he said, “You’ve got a  
money problem. But that’s not unusual. Almost everybody has a money problem. What you need  
is a job. Then you can save your earnings, and when you get enough money saved up, your father  
can pay back the man he stole the trumpet from. Can you actually play  that thing?    
      Louis nodded. He raised the trumpet to his beak.  
      “Ko!” said the trumpet. The pony jumped.    
      “Hey!” said Sam. “That’s pretty good. Do you know any other notes?”  
      Louis shook his head.  
      “I’ve got an idea,” said Sam. “I have a job this summer as a junior counselor at a boys’ camp  
in Ontario. That’s in Canada. I’ll bet I can get you a job as camp bugler if you can learn a few  
more notes. The camp wants somebody that can blow a horn. The idea is, you blow a lot of loud  
fast notes in the early morning to wake the boys up. That’s called reveille. Then you blow some  
other  notes  to  call  the  campers  to  their  meals.  That’s  called  the  mess  call.  Then  at  night  when  

----------------------- Page 30-----------------------

                                                          Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                          http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

everybody is in bed and the light has faded from the sky and the lake is calm and the mosquitoes  
are busy in the tents, biting the boys, and the boys are getting sleepy in their beds, you blow some  
other notes, very soft and sweet and sad. That’s called taps. Do you want to go to the camp with  
me and try it?”  
      “I’ll try anything,” wrote Louis. “I’m desperate for money.”  
      Sam chuckled. “O.K.,” he said. “Camp opens in about three weeks. That’ll give you time to  
learn the bugle calls. I’ll buy you a music book of trumpet calls, such as they use in the Army. He  
read the instructions to Louis. “Stand erect. Always hold the trumpet straight from the body. Do  
not point it down toward the ground as this position cramps the lungs and gives the performer a  
very poor appearance. The instrument should be cleaned once a week to remove the spit.”  
      Every afternoon, when the  guests  on Mr. Beaver’s ranch  had  gone  off  on pack trips in the  
hills,  Louis  practiced  the  calls.  Pretty  soon  he  could  play  reveille,  mess  calls,  and  taps.  He  
particularly  liked  the  sound  of  taps.  Louis  was  musically  inclined  and  was  eager  to  become  a  
really good trumpeter. “A Trumpeter Swan,” he thought, “should blow a good trumpet.” He liked  
the idea of getting a job, too, and earning money. He was just the right age for going to work. He  
was almost two years old.  
      On  the  night  before  they  were  to  leave  for  camp,  Sam  packed  all  his  camping  things  in  a  
duffel bag. He packed sneakers and moccasins. He packed jerseys that said “Camp Kookooskoos”  
on  the  front.  He  rolled  his  camera  in  a  towel  and  packed  that.  He  packed  his  fishing  rod,  his  
toothbrush, his comb and brush, his sweater, his poncho , and his tennis racquet. He packed a pad  
and  pencils  and  postage  stamps  and  a  first-aid  kit  and  a  book  that  told  how  to  identify  birds.  
Before he went to bed, he opened his diary and wrote:  
      Tomorrow is the last day of June. Pop is going to drive Louis and me to Camp Kookooskoos.  
I bet it will be the only boys’ camp in the world that has a trumpeter swan for the camp bugler. I  
like having a job. I wish I knew what it was going to be when I am a man. Why does a dog always  
stretch when he wakes up?    
      Sam  closed  his  diary,  shoved  it  into  the  duffel  bag  with  the  rest  of  his  stuff,  got  into  bed,  
turned out the light, and lay there wondering why a dog always stretches when it wakes up. In two  
minutes he was asleep. Louis, out in the barn, had gone to sleep long ago.    
      Bright and early next morning, Louis arranged his slate and his chalk pencil and his trumpet  
neatly  around  his  neck  and  climbed  into  the  back  seat  of  Mr.  Beaver’s  car.  The  car  was  a  
convertible, so Mr. Beaver put the top down. Sam got in front with his father. Louis stood tall and  
white and  handsome in the back seat. Mrs. Beaver  kissed Sam  good-bye.  She told  him to be a  
good boy and to take care of himself and not to drown in the lake and not to get into fights with  
other boys and not to go out in the rain and get sopping wet and then sit around in the chilly air  
without putting a sweater on, not to get lost in the woods, not to eat too much candy and drink too  
much pop, not to forget to write letters home every few days, and not to go out in a canoe when it  
was windy on the lake.    
      Sam promised.  
      “O.K.!” cried Mr. Beaver. “Off we go to Ontario, beneath the open sky!” He started the car  
and tooted the horn.    
      “Good-bye, Mom!” called Sam.  
      “Good-bye, son!” called his mother.  
      The car sped away toward the big main gate of the ranch. Just as it was disappearing from  

----------------------- Page 31-----------------------

                                                            Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                            http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

view, Louis turned around in his seat and put his trumpet to his mouth.  
      “Ko-hoh!” he blew. J”Ko-hoh, ko-hoh!”  
      The sound carried – a wild, clear, stirring call. Everybody back at the ranch heard it and was  
thrilled by sound of the trumpet. It was like no other sound they had ever heard. It reminded them  
of all the wild and wonderful things and places they had ever known: sunsets and moonrises and  
mountain peaks and valleys and lonely streams and deep woods.  
      “Ko-hoh! Ko-hoh! Ko-hoh!” called Louis.  
      The sound of the trumpet dies away. The ranchers returned to their breakfast. Louis, on his  
way to his first job, felt as excited as he had felt on the day he learned to fly.  
  

                                     Chapter 11 Camp Kookooskoos  
  
      Camp  Kookooskoos  was  on  a  small  lake,  deep  in  the  woods  of  Ontario.  There  were  no  
summer  cottages  on  the  lake,  no  outboard  motors,  no  roads  with  cars  rushing  by.  It  was  a  
wilderness lake, just right for boys. Mr. Beaver left Sam and Louis at the end of a dirt road, and  
they finished their journey to camp by canoe. Sam sat in the stern and paddled, Louis stood in the  
bow and looked straight ahead.  
      The camp consisted of a big log cabin where everybody ate, seven tents where the boys and  
the counselors slept, a dock out front, and a privy out back. The woods closed in all around, but  
there were plenty of canoes in which to take trips to other lakes. There were about forty boys.    
      When  Sam’s  canoe  grounded  on  the  sandy  beach  next  to  the  camp  dock,  Louis  stepped  
ashore wearing his slate, his chalk pencil, and his trumpet. About twenty boys rushed down to the  
landing to see what was going on. They could hardly believe their eyes.    
      “Hey, look what’s here!” one of the boys yelled.  
      “A bird!” cried another. “Look at the size him!”  
      Everybody crowded around Louis, wanting to get a close look at the new camper. Sam had to  
push some of the boys back, to keep Louis from getting crushed.    
      “Take it easy, will you?” Sam implored.  
      That evening after supper, the director of the camp, Mr. Brickle, built a big campfire in front  
of  the  man  lodge.  The  boys  gathered  around.  They  sang  songs  and  toasted  marshmallows  and  
swatted  mosquitoes.  Sometimes  you  couldn’t  understand  the  words  of  a  song  because  the  boys  
sang with marshmallows in their mouths. Louis did not join the group. He stood by himself at a  
little distance.  
      After a while, Mr. Brickle rose to his feet and addressed the boys and the counselors.  
      “I  call  your  attention,”  he  said,  “to a  new  camper  in  our  midst  –  Louis  the  Swan.  He  is a  
Trumpeter Swan, a rare bird. We are lucky to have him. I have employed him at the same salary I  
pay my junior counselors: one hundred dollars for the season. He is gentle and has a speech defect.  
He came here from Montana with Sam Beaver. Louis is a musician. Like most musicians, he is in  
need of money. He will wake you at daybreak with his trumpet; he will call you to meals; and at  
night, when you are dropping off to sleep, he will play taps, and that will bring the day to a close. I  
caution you to treat him as an equal and to treat him with respect—he packs a terrific wallop with  
one  of those wings. In now introduce, for your listening pleasure, Louis the Swan. Take a bow,  
Louis!”  
      Louis was embarrassed, but he came forward and bowed. Then he raised his trumpet to his  

----------------------- Page 32-----------------------

                                                           Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                           http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

mouth and blew a long ko. When he finished, from the opposite shore of the lake there came the  
echo: ko-oo.  
      The boys clapped. Louis bowed again. Sam Beaver, sitting with the others, his mouth full of  
marshmallows, was delighted that his plan had succeeded. At the end the summer, Louis would  
have a hundred dollars.    
      A boy named Applegate Kinner stood up.  
      “Mr. Brickle,” he said, “what about me? I don’t care for birds. I’ve never liked birds.”  
      “O.K., Applegate,” said Mr. Brickle. “You don’t have to like birds. If that’s the way you feel  
about  it, just go ahead  not-liking birds. Everyone is entitled to  his likes and  dislikes and  to  his  
prejudices. Come to think of it, I  don’t care for pistachio  ice cream. I don’t know why I don’t like  
it, but I don’t. Do not forget, however, that Louis is one of your counselors. Whether you like him  
or not, he must be treated with respect.”  
      One of the new boys who had never been to camp before stood up.  
      “Mr.   Brickle,”   she   said,   “why   is   this   camp   called   Camp   Kookooskoos?   What   does  
Kookooskoos mean?”  
      “It’s an Indian name for the Great Horned Owl,” replied Mr. Brickle.  
      The new boy thought about this for a minute.  
      “Then why didn’t you just call it Camp Great Horned Owl instead of Camp Kooskooskoos?”  
      “Because,”  replied  Mr.  Brickle,  “a  boys’  camp  should  have  a  peculiar  name;  otherwise  it  
doesn’t sound interesting. Kookooskoos is a terrific name. It is a long word, but it has only three  
letters in it. It has two s ’s, three k ’s, and six o ’s. You don’t’ find many names as kooky as that. The  
queerer the name, the better the camp. Anyway, welcome to Camp Kookooskoos. It rhymes with  
moose—that’s another good thing about it.  
      “And  now  it’s  time  for  everybody  to  go  to  bed.  You  may  take  a  swim  before  breakfast  
tomorrow, and you don’t need to wear your swim trunks. Just jump out of bed when you hear the  
trumpet of the swan, strip off your pajamas, race to the dock, and dive in. I will be there ahead of  
you to do my celebrated backflip from the diving tower. It freshens me up  for the hard day ahead.  
Good night, Louis! Good night, Sam! Good night, Applegate! Good night, all!”  
      The light was fading. The boys straggled off  (四散)to their tents in the darkness. The senior  
counselors sat together on the porch and smoked on last pipe.    
      Sam crawled in  under his blankets in  Tent  Three.  Louis walked to a high,  flat rock by the  
shore and stood there, waiting. When the lights were all out, he faced the camp, raised his horn to  
his mouth, and blew taps.  
  
      The last note seemed to linger on the still waters of the lake. From their beds, the boys heard  
the beautiful sound, They felt sleepy and serene and happy—all but Applegate Skinner, who didn’t  
care for birds at bedtime. But even Applegate was soon asleep, along with the others in his tent.  
He was asleep, and he was snoring. People who dislike birds often snore.  
      A deep peace fell over Camp Kookooskoos.    
  

                                            Chapter 12 A Rescue  
      Louis liked to sleep on the lake. At night, after blowing taps, he would waddle down to the  
sandy beach by the dock. There he removed his slate, his chalk pencil, and his trumpet and hid  
them under a bush. Then he shoved off into the water. As soon as he was afloat, he would tuck his  

----------------------- Page 33-----------------------

                                                        Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                        http://www.foxitsoftware.com        For evaluation only. 

head  under a wing.  For a while  he  would  doze and think about  home and  his  parents.  Then  he  
would  think  about  Serena—how  beautiful  she  was  and  how  much  he  loved  her.  Pretty  soon  he  
would  be  fast  asleep.  When  daylight  came,  he  would  swim  ashore  and  eat  a  light  breakfast  of  
water plants. Then he’d put on his things, climb onto the flat rock, and blow reveille. The boys,  
hearing the trumpet, would wake and rush to the dock to swim before breakfast.  
      After  supper  at  night  the  campers  would  often  play  volleyball.  Louis  loved  the  game.  He  
couldn’t hop around as fast as the boys, but he could reach far out with his long neck and poke the  
ball into the air and over the net. It was very hard to get a ball past Louis—he could return almost  
any shot. When the boys  chose sides at the start  of the  game,  Louis  was always the  first to be  
chosen.  
      The boys loved camp life in Ontario. They learned how to handle a canoe. They learned to  
swim. Sam Beaver took them on nature walks and taught them to sit quietly on a log and observe  
wild creatures and birds. He showed them how to walk in the woods without making a lot of noise.  
Sam showed them where the kingfisher had his nest, in a hole in the bank by a stream. He showed  
them the partridge and her chicks. When the boys heard a soft  co-co-co-co, Sam told them they  
were listening to the Sawwhet Owl, smallest of the owls, no bigger than a man’s hand. Sometimes  
in the middle of the night the whole camp would wake to the scream of a wildcat. Nobody ever  
saw wildcat during the entire summer, but his scream was heard at night.    
      One morning when Sam was playing tennis with Applegate Skinner, Sam heard a  clanking  
noise. He looked behind him, and there, coming out of the woods, was a skunk. The skunk’s head  
was stuck in a tin can; he couldn’t see where he was going. He kept bumping into trees and rocks,  
and the can went clank, clank, clank.  
      “That  skunk  is  in  trouble,”  said  Sam,  laying  down  his  racquet.  “He’s  been  to  the  dump,  
looking for food. He poked his head into that empty can, and now he can’t get it out.”  
      The words spread quickly through camp that a skunk had arrived. The boys came running to  
see  the  fun.  Mr.  Brickle  warned  them  not  to  get  too  close—the  skunk  might  squirt  them  with  
perfume. So the boys danced around, keeping their distance and holding their noses.  
      The big question was how to get the can off the skunk will starve to death if we don’t get that  
can off.”  
      All boys had suggestions.  
      One  boy  said  they  should  make  a  bow  and  arrow,  tie  a  string  to  the  arrow,  and  shoot  the  
arrow at the can. Then, when they hit the can, they could pull the string and the can would come  
off the skunk’s head. Nobody thought much of that suggestion—it sounded like too much work.  
      Another boy suggested that two boys climb a tree, and one boy could hang by his feet from  
the other boy’s hands, and when the skunk walked under the tree, the boy who was hanging by his  
feet could reach down and pull the can off, and if the skunk squirted, the perfume wouldn’t hit the  
boy because he would be hanging in the air. Nobody thought much of that suggestion. Mr. Brickle  
didn’t like it at all. He said it was extremely impractical and furthermore he wouldn’t permit it.  
      Another boy suggested that they get a block of wood, smear it with glue, and when the skunk  
knocked  against  it,  the  can  would  stick  to  the  block  of  wood.  Nobody  thought  much  of  that  
suggestion. Mr. Brickle said he didn’t have any glue anyway.    
      While  everybody  was  making  suggestions,  Sam  Beaver  walked  quietly  to  his  tent.  He  
returned in a few minutes with a long pole and a piece of fish line. Sam tied one end of the fish  
line to the pole. Then he tied a slipknot in the other end of the line and formed a noose. Then he  

----------------------- Page 34-----------------------

                                                         Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                         http://www.foxitsoftware.com        For evaluation only. 

climbed to the roof of the porch and asked the other boys not to get too close to the skunk.    
      The skunk all this time was blundering around, blindly bumping into things. It was a pitiful  
sight.  
      Sam, holding his pole, waited patiently on the roof. He looked like a fisherman waiting for a  
bite. When the skunk  wandered closed to the building,  Sam reached over,  dangled the noose in  
front of the skunk, slipped the noose around the can, and gave a jerk. The noose tightened, and the  
can  came  off.  As  it  did  so,  the  skunk  turned  around  and  squirted—right  at  Mr.  Brickle,  who  
jumped back, stumbled, and fell. All the boys danced around, holding their noses. The skunk ran  
off into the woods. Mr. Brickle got up and dusted himself off. The air smelled strong of skunk. Mr.  
Brickle smelled, too.  
      “Congratulations, Sam!” said Mr. Bricke. “You  have aided a wild creature and  have  given  
Camp  Kookooskoos  a  delicious   dash   of   wild  perfume.   I’m  sure  we’ll  all  remember  this  
malodorous event for a long time to come. I don’t see how we can very well forget it.”  
      “Ko-hoh!”  cried  Louis,  lifting  his  trumpet.  The  lake  echoed  with  the  sound.  The  air  was  
heavy with the rich, musky smell of skunk. Some of them held their stomachs and pretended to  
throw up. Then Mr. Brickle announced it was time for the morning swim.  
      “A  swim  will  clear  the  air,”  he  said,  as  he  walked  away  toward  his  cottage  to  change  his  
clothes.    
      After lunch each day, the campers went to their tents for a rest period. Some of them read  
books. Some wrote letters home, telling their parents how bad the food was. Some just lay on their  
cots and talked. One afternoon during rest period, the boys in Applegate’s tent began teasing him  
about his name.  
      “Applegate Skinner,” said one boy, “Where did you get such a crazy name, Applegate?”  
      “My parents gave it to me,” replied Applegate.  
      “I know what his name is,” said another boy. “Sour Applegate. Sour Applegate Skinner.” The  
boys howled at this and began chanting, “Sour Applegate, Sour Applegate, Sour Applegate.” This  
suggestion was greeted with screams of laughter.  
      “Quiet!” bellowed the tent leader.    
      “I don’t think it’s funny,” said Applegate.  
      “His name isn’t Sour  Applegate,” whispered another boy. “His name is  Wormy Applegate.  
Wormy Applegate Skinner.” This suggestion was greeted with screams of laughter.  
      “Quiet!” bellowed the tent leader. “I want quiet in this tent. Leave Applegate alone!”  
      “Leave Rotten Applegate alone!” whispered another boy. And some of the other boys had to  
pull their pillows over their heads so their snickering couldn’t be heard.    
      Applegate was sore. When the rest period was over, he wandered down to the dock. He didn’t  
like being made fun of, and he wanted to do something to get even. Without saying anything to  
anybody,  he slid a canoe into the water and  paddled  out into the lake, heading  for the opposite  
shore a mile away. No one noticed him.  
      Applegate had no business taking a canoe out alone. He had  not passed  his canoe test. He  
was disobeying a camp rule. When he was a quarter of a mile from shore, in deep water, the wind  
grew stronger. The waves got higher. The canoe was hard on his paddle. His hand slipped, and he  
lost  his  balance.  The  canoe  tipped  over.  Applegate  found  himself  in  the  water.  His  clothes  felt  
terribly soggy and heavy. His shoes dragged him down, and he could barely keep his head above  
water. Instead of hanging on to the canoe, he started swimming toward shore—which was a crazy  

----------------------- Page 35-----------------------

                                                       Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                       http://www.foxitsoftware.com       For evaluation only. 

thing to do. One wave hit him square in the face, and he got a mouthful of water.    
      “Help!” he screamed. “Help me! I’m drowning. It’ll give the camp a bad name if I drown.  
Help! Help!”  
      Counselors sprinted to the waterfront. They jumped into canoes and rowboats and started for  
the drowning boy. One counselor kicked his moccasins off, dove in, and began swimming toward  
Applegate.  Mr.  Brickle  raced  to  the  dock,  climbed  to  the  diving  tower,  and  directed  the  rescue  
operation, shouting through a megaphone.  
      “Hang on to the canoe, Applegate!” he shouted. “Don’t leave the canoe!”  
      But Applegate had already left the canoe. He was all alone, thrashing about and wasting his  
strength. He felt sure he would soon go to the bottom and drown. He felt weak and scared. Water  
had got into his lungs. He couldn’t’ last much longer.  
      The first boat to get away from the dock was rowed by Sam Beaver, and Sam was pulling  
hard at the oars, straining every muscle. But things didn’t look good for Applegate. The boats were  
still a long way from the boy.    
      When the first cry of “Help” was heard in camp, Louis was coming around the corner of the  
main lodge. He spied Applegate immediately and responded to the call.  
      “I can’t fly  out there,” thought Louis, “because my flight feathers have been falling out lately.  
But I can certainly make better time than those boats.    
      Dropping his slate and his chalk  pencil and  his trumpet, Louis splashed into the  water and  
struck  out, beating his wings and  kicking with  his  great webbed feet. A swan,  even in summer  
when he can’t fly, can scoot across the water at high speed. Louis’s powerful wings beat the air.  
His feet churned the waves. In a moment he had passed all the boats. When he reached Appletgate,  
he quickly dove, pointed his long neck between Applegate’s legs, then came to the surface with  
Applegate sitting on his back.  
      Cheers came from the people on the shore and in the boats. Applegate clung to Louis’s neck.  
He had been saved in the nick of time. Another minute and he would have gone to the bottom.  
Water would have filled his lungs. He would have been a goner.  
      “Thank  God!”  shouted  Mr.  Brickle  through  his  megaphone.  “Great  work,  Louis!  Camp  
Kookooskoos will never forget this day! The reputation of the camp has been saved. Our record  
for safety is still untarnished.”    
      Louis didn’t pay much attention to all the shouting. He swam very carefully over to Sam’s  
boat, and Sam pulled Applegate into the boat and helped him into the stern seat.  
      “You looked pretty funny, riding a swan,” Sam said. “And you’re lucky to be alive. You’re  
not supposed to go out alone in a canoe.”  
      But Applegate was too scared and wet to say anything. He just sat and stared straight ahead,  
spitting water out of his mouth and breathing hard.    
      At supper that night, Mr. Brickle placed Louis at his right, in the place of honor. When the  
meal was over, he rose and made a speech.  
      “We all saw what happened on the lake today. Applegate Skinner broke a camp rule, took a  
canoe out alone, and upset. He was drowning when Louis the Swan, rapidly outdistancing all other  
campers,  reached  his  side,  held  him  up,  and  saved  his  life.  Let  us  all  give  Louis  a  standing  
ovation!”  
      The boys and the counselors stood up. They cheered and clasped and beat on tin plates with  
spoons. Then they sat down. Louis looked embarrassed.  

----------------------- Page 36-----------------------

                                                             Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                             http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

      “And now, Applegate,” said Mr. Brickle, “I hope the rescue has caused you to change your  
opinion of birds. The first day you were here in camp, you told us you didn’t care for birds. How  
do you feel now?”  
      “I feel sick at my stomach,” replied Applegate. “It makes you sick at your stomach to almost  
drown. My stomach still has a lot of lake water in it.”  
      “Yes, but what about birds?” asked Mr. Brickle.  
      Applegate thought hard for a moment. “Well,” he said, “I’m grateful to Louis for saving my  
life. But I still don’t like birds.”  
      “Really?”  said  Mr.  Brickle.  “That’s  quite  remarkable.  Even  though  a  bird  saved  you  from  
drowning, you don’t’ care for birds? What have you got against birds?”    
      “Nothing,” replied Applegate. “I have nothing against them. I just don’t care for them.”  
      “O.K.,” said Mr. Brickle. “I guess we’ll just have to leave it at that. But the camp is proud of  
Louis. He is our  most distinguished counselor—a great trumpet  player, a great bird, a powerful  
swimmer, and a find friend. He deserves a medal. In fact, I intend to write a letter recommending  
that he be given the Lifesaving Medal.”  
      Mr.  Brickle  did  as  he  promised.  He  wrote  a  letter.  A  few  days  later,  a  man  arrived  from  
Washington  with  the  Lifesaving  Medal,  and  while  all  the  campers  watched,  he  hung  the  medal  
around  Louis’s  neck,  alongside  the  trumpet,  the  slate,  and  the  chalk  pencil.  It  was  a  beautiful  
medal. Engraved on it were the words:  
        TO LOUIS THE SWAN, WHO, WITH OUTSTANDING COURAGE AND COMPLETE  
DISREGARD FOR HIS OWN SAFETY, SAVED THE LIFE OF APPLEGATE SKINNER.  
      Louis took off his slate and wrote, “Thank you for this medal. It is a great honor.”  
      But he thought to himself, “I’m beginning to get overloaded with stuff around my neck. I’ve  
got a trumpet, I’ve got a slate, I’ve got a chalk pencil; now I’ve got a medal. I’m beginning to look  
like a hippie. I hope I’ll still be able to fly when my flight feathers grow in again.”  
      That night when darkness came, Louis blew the most beautiful taps he had ever blown. The  
man who had brought the medal was listening and watching. He could hardly believe his ears and  
his eyes. When he returned to the city, he told people what he had seen and heard. Louis’s fame  
was growing. His name was known. People all over were beginning to talk about the swan that  
could play a trumpet.  
  

                                       Chapter 13    End of Summer  
      A trumpet has three little valves. They are for the fingers of the player. They look like this:  
  
  
By pushing them down in the right order, the player can produce all the notes of the musical scale.  
Louis had often examined these three little valves on his horn, but he had never been able to use  
them.  He  had  three  front  toes  on  each  foot,  but,  being  a  water  bird,  he  had  webbed  feet.  The  
webbing prevented him from using his three toes independently. Luckily, the valves on a trumpet  
are not needed fro bugle calls because bugle calls are just combinations of do, mi, and sol, and a  
trumpeter can play do, mi, and sol without pressing down any of the valves.    
      “If I could just work those three valves with my three toes,” he said to himself, “I could play  
all sorts of music, not just bugle calls. I could play jazz. I could play country-and-western. I could  
play rock. I could  play the great  music  of Bach, Beethoven, Mozart, Sibelius, Gershwin, Irving  

----------------------- Page 37-----------------------

                                                        Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                        http://www.foxitsoftware.com         For evaluation only. 

Berlin, Brahm, everybody. I could really be a trumpet player, not just a camp bugler. I might even  
get a job with an orchestra.” The thought filled him with ambition. Louis loved music, and besides,  
he was already casting about for ways of making money after camp was over.  
      Although he enjoyed life at Camp Kookooskoos, Louis often thought of his home on Upper  
Red  Rock  Lake  in  Montana.  He  thought  about  his  parents,  his  brothers  and  sisters,  and  about  
Serena. He was terribly in love with Serena, and he often wondered what was happening to her. At  
night, he would look up at the stars and think about her. In the late evening, when the big bullfrogs  
were calling troonk across the still lake, he would think of Serena. Sometimes he felt sad, lonely,  
and homesick. His music, however, was a comfort to him. He loved the sound of his own trumpet.  
      Summer  passed all too quickly. On the last day of camp, Mr. Brickle called his counselors  
together and paid them what he owed them. Louis received one hundred dollars—the first money  
he  had  ever  earned.  He  had  no  wallet  and  no  pockets,  so  Mr.  Brickle  placed  the  money  in  a  
waterproof bag that had a draw-string. He hung this moneybag around Louis’s beck, along with  
the trumpet, the slate, the chalk pencil, and the lifesaving medal.  
      Louis went to Sam Beaver’s tent and found Sam packing his things. Louis took off his slate  
and pencil.    
      “I need another job,” he wrote. “Where should I go?”  
      Sam sat down on his bed and thought for a while. Then he said, “Go to Boston. Maybe you  
can get a job with the Swan Boat.”  
      Louis had never been to Boston, and he had no idea what the Swan Boat was, but he nodded  
his head. Then on his slate he wrote: “Do me a favor?”  
      “Sure,” said Sam.  
      “Take a razor blade and slit the web on my right foot, so I can wiggle my toes.” He held out  
his foot.  
      “Why do you want to wiggle your toes?” asked Sam.  
      “You’ll see,” wrote Louis. “I need my toes in my business.”  
      Sam hesitated. Then he borrowed a razor blade from one of the older counselors. He made a  
long,  neat  cut  between  Louis’s  inner  toe  and  middle  toe.  The  nhe  made  another  cut  between  
Louis’s middle toe and outer toe.  
      “Does it hurt?”  
      Louis shook his head. He lifted his trumpet, placed his toes on the valves, and played do, re,  
mi, fa, sol, la, ti, do. Do, ti, la, sol, fa, mi, re, do. Ko-hoh!  
      Sam grinned. “The Swan Boat will hire you , all right,” he said. “You’re a real trumpeter now.  
But with your web cut, swimming will be harder for you. You will have a tendency to swim in  
circles, because your left foot will push better than your right foot.”  
      “I can manage,” wrote Louis. “Thanks very much for the surgery.”  
      Next day, the campers left. The canoes had been hoisted onto racks in the boathouse, the float  
had been hauled onto the beach, the windows of the lodge had been boarded up against bears and  
squirrels,  mattresses  had  been  packed  into  zipper  bags;  everything  was  snug  and  ready  for  the  
long, silent winter. Of all the campers, only Louis stayed behind. His flight feathers were growing  
fast, but he still couldn’t fly. He made up his mind he would remain at camp, all alone, until he  
was able to take to the air again, and then he would fly straight to Boston.  
      The lake was lonely without the boys, but Louis didn’t mind being alone. For the next three  
weeks he took life easy. He grew his flight feathers, dreamed of Serena by day and by night, and  

----------------------- Page 38-----------------------

                                                            Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                            http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

practiced his trumpet. He had listened to music all summer—several of the boys had radios and  
record players—and now he practiced the songs on his trumpet. Every day he got better and better.  
One day, he composed a love song for Serena and wrote the words and music on his slate:  
  
He was really thinking of Serenea, but he left her name out of it and kept it impersonal.  
      His plumage  was beautiful now, and he felt great. On the twenty-first of September, he tried  
his wings. To his great relief, they lifted him. Louis rose into the air. The trumpet banged against  
the slate, the slate knocked against the money bag, the lifesaving medal clinked against the chalk  
pencil—but Louis was air-borne again. He climbed and climbed and  headed for Boston.  It  was  
wonderful to be in the sky again.  
      “Flying is a lot  harder than it  was before I acquired all these  possessions,” thought Louis.  
“The best way to travel, really, is to travel light. On the other hand, I have to have these things.  
I’ve got to have the trumpet if I am to win Serena for my wife; I’ve got to carry this moneybag to  
hold  the  money  to  pay  my  father’s  debts;  I’ve  got  to  have  the  slate  and  pencil  so  I  can  
communicate with people; and I ought to wear the medal because I really did save a life, and if I  
didn’t wear it, people might think I was ungrateful.”  
      On  and  on  he  flew,  toward  Boston,  which  is  the  capital  of  Massachusetts,  and  which  is  
famous for its baked beans, its codfish, its tea parties, its Cabots, its Lowells, its Saltonstalls, and  
its Swan Boats.  
  

                                             Chapter 14    Boston  
      Louis liked Boston the minute eh saw it from the sky. Far beneath him was a river. Near the  
river was a park. In the park was a lake. In the lake was an island. On the shore was a dock. Tied  
to the dock was a boat shaped like a swan. The place looked idea. There was even a very fine hotel  
nearby.  
      Louis circled twice, then glided down and splashed to a stop in the lake. Several ducks swam  
up to look him over. The park was called the Public Garden. Everybody in Boston knows about it  
and goes there to sit on benches in the sun, to stroll about, to feed the pigeons and the squirrels,  
and to ride the Swan Boat. A ride costs twenty-five cents for grown-ups, fifteen cents for children.  
      After a short rest and a bite to eat, Louis swam over to the dock and climbed out on the shore.  
The  man  who  was  taking  tickets  for  the  Swan  Boat  ride  seemed  surprised  to  see  an  enormous  
white swan wearing so many things around his neck.    
      “Hello!” said the Boatman.  
      Louis lifted his trumpet. “Ko-hoh!” he replied.  
      At the sound, every bird in the park looked up. The Boatman jumped. Boston residents as far  
as a mile away looked up and said, “What’s that?” Nobody in Boston had ever heard a Trumpeter  
Swan.  The  sound  made  a  big  impression.  People  eating  a  late  breakfast  in  the  Ritz  Hotel  on  
Arlington Street looked up from their food. Waiters and bellboys said, “What’s that?”    
      The  man in charge  of  the  Swan Boat  was probably the  most surprised  man in  Boston. He  
examined  Louis’s  trumpet,  his  moneybag,  his  lifesaving  medal,  his  slate,  and  his  chalk  pencil.  
Then he asked Louis what he wanted. Louis wrote on his slate: “Have trumpet. Need work.”  
      “O.K.,” said the Boatman. “You’ve got yourself a job. A boat leaves here in five minutes for  
a trip around the lake. Your job will be to swim in front of the boat, leading the way and blowing  
your horn.”  

----------------------- Page 39-----------------------

                                                          Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                          http://www.foxitsoftware.com          For evaluation only. 

      “What salary do I get?” asked Louis on his slate.  
      “We’ll settle that later, when we see how you make out,” said the Boatman. “This is just a  
tryout.”  
      Louis nodded. He arranged his things neatly around his neck, entered the water quietly, took  
up a position a few yards in front of the boat, and waited. He wondered what would make the boat  
go. He couldn’t see any outboard motor, and there were no oars. In the forward part of the boat  
were benches for the passengers. In the stern was a structure that was shaped like a swan. It was  
hollow.  Inside  of  it  was  a  seat,  like  a  bicycle  seat.  And  there  were  two  pedals  inside,  like  the  
pedals of a bicycle.    
      When the passengers were all aboard, a young man appeared. He climbed onto the stern of  
the boat and sat down on the seat inside the hollow swan-shaped structure and began to push the  
pedals with his feet, as though he were riding a bike. A paddle wheel began to turn. The Boatman  
cast the lines off, and as the young man pedaled, the Swan Boat slowly moved out into the lake.  
Louis led the way, swimming with his left foot, holding his trumpet with his right foot.  
      “Ko-hoh!” said Louis’s trumpet. The wild sound rang loud and clear and stirred everyone’s  
blood.  Then,  realizing  that  he  should  play  something  appropriate,  Louis  played  a  song  he  had  
heard the boys sing at camp.    
            Row, row, row your boat  
            Gently down the stream;  
            Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily,  
            Life is but a dream.  
The  Swan  Boat  passengers  were  beside  themselves  with  joy  and  excitement.  A  real  live  swan,  
playing a trumpet! Life was a dream, all right. What a lark! What fun! What pleasure!  
      “This is real groovy!” cried a boy in the front seat. “That bird is as good as Louis Armstrong,  
the famous trumpet player. I’m going to call him Louis.”  
      When Louis heard this, he swam alongside the boat, took his chalk pencil in his mouth, and  
wrote: “That’s actually my name.”  
      “Hey, how about that?” yelled the boy. “This swan can write, too. Louis can write. Let’s give  
a cheer!”  
      The  passengers  cheered  loudly.  Louis  swam  ahead  again,  leading  the  way.  Slowly  and  
gracefully, the boat circled the island, while Louis played “Gentle on My Mind” on his trumpet. It  
was  a  lovely  September  morning,  hazy  and  warm.  Trees  were  beginning  to  show  their  autumn  
colors. Louis played “Ol’ Man River.”  
      When the Swan Boat docked and the passengers got off, long lines of people were waiting to  
get  aboard  for  the  next  ride.  Business  was  booming.  Another  boat  was  being  made  ready,  to  
accommodate  the  crowds.  Everyone  wanted  to  ride  the  Swan  Boats  behind  a  real  live  swan  
playing  a  trumpet.  It  was  the  biggest  happening  in  Boston  in  a  long  time.  People  like  strange  
events and queer happenings, and the Swan Boat, with Louis out front leading the way, suddenly  
became the most popular attraction in Boston.    
      “You’re hired,” said the Boatman, when Louis climbed out onto the bank. “With you playing  
the  trumpet,  I  can  double  my  business.  I  can  triple  it.  I  can  quadruple  it.  I  can  quintuple  it.  I  
can…I can… I an sextoople it. Anyway, I’ll give you a steady job.”    
      Louis lifted his slate. “What salary?” he asked.  
      The Boatman gazed around at the crowds waiting to get aboard.  

----------------------- Page 40-----------------------

                                                           Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                           http://www.foxitsoftware.com          For evaluation only. 

      “A hundred dollars a week,” he said. “I’ll pay you a hundred dollars every Saturday if you’ll  
swim ahead of the boats every Saturday if you’ll swim ahead of the boats and play your horn. Is it    
a deal?  
      Louis nodded his head. The man seemed pleased but puzzled. “If it isn’t too much to ask,”  
said the Boatman, “would you mind telling me why you’re so interested in money?”  
      “Everybody is,” replied Louis on his slate.  
      “Yeah, I know,” said the Boatman. “Everybody likes money. It’s a crazy world. But, I mean,  
why would a swan need money? You can get your meals just by dipping down and pulling up tasty  
plants at the bottom of the lake. What do you need money for?  
      Louis erased his slate. “I’m in debt,” he wrote. And he thought about his poor father who had  
stolen  the  trumpet  and  about  the  poor  shopkeeper  in  Billings  who  had  been  robbed  and  whose  
store had been damaged. Louis knew he must go on earning money until he could pay off what he  
owed.    
      “O.K.,” said the Boatman, addressing the crowd, “this swan says he’s in debt. All aboard for  
the next ride!” And he began selling tickets. The Boatman owned several boats, all of them shaped  
like a swan. Pretty soon every boat was full and money was flowing in.  
      All day long, the Swan Boats circled the lake, carrying their load of happy people, many of  
them  children.  Louis  played  his trumpet as he had  never played  it before. He liked the job. He  
loved to entertain people. And he loved music. The Boatman was just as pleased as he could be.  
      When the day was over and the boats made their last trip, the Boatman walked over to Louis,  
who was standing on shore arranging his things.  
      “You’ve done great,” said the Boatman. “You’re a good swan. I wish I’d had you long ago.  
And now—where are you planning to spend the night?”  
      “Here on the lake,” Louis wrote.  
      “Well, I don’t know about that,” said the man uneasily. “an awful lot of people are curious  
about you. They might make trouble for you. Bad boys might molest you. I don’t trust the people  
who hang around this park at night. You might get kidnapped. I don’t want to lose you. I think I’ll  
take you across to the Ritz Carlton Hotel and get you a room for the night. It’s clean, and the food  
is good. It would be safer. Then I can be sure you’ll come to work in the morning.”    
      Louis didn’t think much of this idea, but he agreed to go. He thought, “Well, I’ve never spent  
a night  in a  hotel—maybe it  would be an interesting experience.” So  he  walked along with the  
Boatman. They left the park and crossed Arlington Street and entered the lobby of the Ritz. It had  
been a long, tiring day for Louis, but he felt relieved to know that he had a good job and that he  
could earn money in Boston as a musician.    
  

                                   Chapter 15    A Night at the Ritz  
      When  the  desk  clerk  at  the  Ritz  Hotel  saw  the  Boatman  enter  the  lobby  followed  by  an  
enormous  snow-white  swan  with  a  black  beak,  the  clerk  didn’t  like  it  at  all.  The  clerk  was  a  
carefully-dressed man—very neat, his hair nicely combed. The Boatman stepped boldly up to the  
desk.  
      “I’d like a single room for tonight for my friend here,” said the Boatman.  
      The clerk shook his head.  
      “No birds,” he said. “The Ritz doesn’t take birds.”  
      “You take celebrities, don’t you?” asked the Boatman.  

----------------------- Page 41-----------------------

                                                             Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                             http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

      “Certainly,” replied the clerk.  
      “You’d take Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor, wouldn’t you, if they wanted to spend the  
night?”  
      “Of course,” replied the clerk.  
      “You’d take Queen Elizabeth, wouldn’t you?”  
      “Of course.”    
      “O.K.,” said the Boatman. “My friend here is a  The Trumpet of the Swan celebrity. He is a  
famous musician. He created a sensation in the Public Garden this afternoon. You must have heard  
the commotion. He’s a Trumpeter Swan and plays like the great Armstrong.”    
      The clerk gazed suspiciously at Louis.  
      “Has he any luggage?” asked the clerk.  
      “Luggage?” cried the Boatman. “Take a look at him! Look at the stuff he’s got with him!”  
      “Well,  I  don’t  know,”  said  the  clerk,  staring  at  Louis’s  possessions—his  trumpet,  his  
moneybag, his slate, his chalk pencil, his lifesaving medal. “A bird is a bird. How do I know he  
hasn’t got lice?” Birds often have lice  (louse 的复数，虱  ). The Ritz won’t take anybody that has  
lice.”  
      “Lice?” roared the Boatman. “Did you ever see a cleaner guest in your whole life? Look at  
him! He’s immaculate. (完美的；洁净的；无瑕疵的)”    
      At this, Louis held his slate up to the clerk. “No lice,” he wrote.  
      The clerk stared in amazement. He was beginning to weaken.    
      “Well, I  have to be  careful,” he said to the  Boatman. “You say  he’s a celebrity. How  do  I  
know he’s famous. You may be just kidding me about that.”    
      Just  then,  three  young  girls  entered  the  lobby.  They  were  giggling  and  squealing.  One  of  
them pointed at Louis.    
      “There he is!” she screamed. “There he is! I’ll get his autograph.”  
      The girls rushed up to Louis. The first girl held out a pad and pencil.  
      “May I have your autograph?” she asked.  
      Louis took the pencil. Very gracefully, he wrote “Louis” on the pad.  
      More squeals, more giggles, and the girls rushed away. The clerk watched in silence.  
      “There!” said the Boatman. “Is he a celebrity or isn’t he?”  
      The clerk hesitated. He was beginning to think he would have to give Louis a room.  
      At this point, Louis had an idea. He lifted his trumpet and began to play an old song called  
“There’s a Small Hotel.”  
  
  
His tone was beautiful. Guests  passing through the lobby  paused to listen. The clerk leaned  his  
elbows on the desk and listened attentively. The man behind the newsstand looked up and listened.  
People sitting upstairs in the lounge put down their cocktails and listened. The bellboys stared and  
listened.  For  a  few  minutes,  everything  stopped  in  the  lobby  while  Louis  played.  He  charmed  
everyone  who  could  hear.  Chambermaids  in  the  bedrooms  paused  in  their  work  to  listen  to  the  
trumpet. It was a moment of sheer magic. As the song came to an end, people who knew the words  
sang them softly.  
             When the steeple (尖塔) bell  
            Says “Good night, sleep well,”    

----------------------- Page 42-----------------------

                                                            Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                            http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

            We’ll thank the small hotel, together.”    
“How about that?” asked the Boatman, grinning at the clerk. “Is this swan a musician or isn’t he?”  
       “He plays a sweet trumpet,” the clerk said. “But there is one more question that I hesitate to  
bring up. What about his personal habits? Will he mess the room all up? Actors are bad enough.  
Musicians are worse. I can’t allow a large birds to occupy one of our beds—it might put us out of  
business. Other guests might complain.”  
      “I sleep in the bathtub,” Louis wrote on his slate. “Will not disturb bed.”  
      The clerk shifted  his  weight  from  one foot to the  other. “Who’s going to  pay the bill?”  he  
asked.    
      “I am,” replied the Boatman. “I’ll be here early tomorrow morning when Louis checks out.”  
      The clerk couldn’t think of any more reasons for not letting the swan have a room.  
      “Very well,” he said. “Sign the register, please!” He handed Louis a pen and a card.  
      Louis wrote:  
                  Louis the Swan  
                  Upper Red Rock Lake  
                        Montana  
  
      Then clerk studied it. He seemed satisfied at last. He summoned a bellboy and handed him a  
key. “Take this gentleman to his room!” he ordered.  
      Louis  removed  his  medal,  his  trumpet,  his  slate,  his  chalk  pencil,  and  his  moneybag  and  
handed them to the bellboy. Together, they walked to the elevators. The Boatman said good-bye.  
      “Sleep  well, Louis!” called  the Boatman. “And be ready to come to  work  promptly in the  
morning!”  
      Louis nodded. The elevator door opened. “This way, sir!” said the bellboy. The entered the  
elevator and waited for the door to close. A rich smell of perfume filled the air. Louis stood very  
still.  Then  he  felt  himself  rising.  The  elevator  stopped  at  the  seventh  floor,  and  the  bellboy  led  
Louis to a room, unlocked the door and ushered him in.  
      “Here you are, sir!” he said. “Would you like a window open?”  
      The bellboy put Louis’s luggage down, snapped on a few lights, opened a window, and laid  
the room key on the dresser. Then he waited.  
     “I guess he wants a tip,” thought Louis. So he went to his moneybag, loosened the drawstring,  
and took out a dollar.  
      “Thank you very much, sir,” said the bellboy, taking the dollar. He went out and closed the  
door softly behind him. Louis was alone at last—alone in a room at the Ritz.  
      Louis had never spent a night alone in a hotel. First he walked round and around, switching  
lights on and off, examining everything. In the writing desk, he found a few sheets of paper that  
said:    
                  Ritz Carlton  
                  Boston  
He felt  mussy and  dirty, so  he  went into the bathroom,  climbed into the tub,  pulled  the shower  
curtain across, and took a shower bath. It felt good and reminded him of the water fights he used  
to have with his brothers and sisters. He was careful not to splash any water out of the tub. When  
he was finished, he stood for a while, admiring the baht mat and preening his feathers . The he felt  
hungry.    

----------------------- Page 43-----------------------

                                                            Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                            http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

      On the wall of the bedroom, he found a button that said WAITER. Louis put his beak against  
the button and pressed hard. In a few minutes, there was a knock at the door and a waiter entered.  
He was nicely dressed and tried not to show surprise at finding swan in the room.    
      “May I get you something?” he asked.  
      Louis picked up his chalk pencil. “Twelve watercress sandwiches, please,” he wrote on the  
slate.  
      The waiter thought for a moment. “Are you expecting guests?” he asked.  
      Louis shook his head.  
      “And you want twelve watercress sandwiches?”                  
      Louis nodded.  
      “Very good, sire,” said the waiter. “Do you wish them with mayonnaise                               ?”  
                                                                                               （蛋黄酱） 

      Louis didn’t know what mayonnaise tasted like, but he thought fast. He cleaned his slate and  
wrote: “One with. Eleven without.”  
      The waiter bowed and left the room. Half an hour later he was back. He rolled a table into the  
room, placed a hug platter   (大浅盘) of watercress sandwiches on it, along with a plate, a knife, a  
fork, a spoon, salt and pepper, a glass of water, and a linen napkin, nicely folded. There was also a  
butter dish, with several pieces of butter covered with cracked ice. The waiter arranged everything  
carefully, then handed Louis a bill to sign. The bill said:  
            12 w/c sandwiches: $18:00  
      “Goodness!” thought Louis. “This is an expensive place. I hope the Boatman won’t be mad  
when he sees this supper charge on the bill tomorrow morning.”  
      He borrowed a pencil from the waiter and signed he bill: “Louis the Swan.”  
      The waiter took the bill and stood there, waiting.  
      “I  guess  he  wants  a  tip,”  thought  Louis.  So  he  opened  his  moneybag  again,  drew  out  two  
dollars, and handed it to the waiter, who thanked him, bowed again, and went away.  
      Because a swan has such a long neck, the table was just the right height for Louis. He didn’t  
need a chair; he ate his supper standing up. He tried the sandwich that had mayonnaise on it and  
decided  he  didn’t like  mayonnaise. Then  he  carefully  pulled each sandwich apart. All  he really  
wanted was the watercress. He piled the slices of bread in two neat piles, scooped the watercress  
onto his plate, and had a nice supper. He did not touch the butter. When he was thirsty, instead of  
drinking from the glass of water, he walked into the bathroom, drew a basinful of cold water, and  
drank that. Then he took his napkin, wiped his desk, and pushed the table out of the way. He felt  
much better.  
  
      To be all alone in a hotel room  gives a person a cozy  feeling and a feeling  of importance.  
Louis  felt  great.  But  soon  he  began  feeling  rather  lonely,  too.  He  thought  of  Sam  Beaver.  He  
thought of Camp Kookooskoos. He thought of his father and mother and sisters and brothers, back  
home  in  Montana.  He  thought  of  Serena,  the  swan  he  loved,  and  wondered  how  she  was.  The  
words of the song he had played in the lobby came back to him:  
            There’s a small hotel  
            With a wishing well:  
            I wish that we were there, together.  
  
How wonderful it would be, he thought, if Serena could be here at the Ritz to enjoy the hotel with  

----------------------- Page 44-----------------------

                                                          Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                          http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

him!  
      The  waiter  head  left  an  evening  paper  on  a  table.  Louis  glanced  at  the  front  page.  To  his  
amazement, he saw a picture of himself on the lake in the Public Garden with the Swan Boat. A  
big headline said:  
            BOSTON GOES WILD OVER    
            THE TRUMPET OF THE SWAN  
The news story began:  
      There’s a new bird in town. His name is Louis. He is a Trumpeter Swan that really plays the  
trumpet.   Incredible  though  it   may  seem,  this  rare  and  beautiful  water  bird   has  accepted  
employment with the Swan Boat management in the Public Garden and is entertaining boat riders  
with his smooth trumpet. Crowds gathered at the lake this afternoon after his arrival, and the sweet  
notes of his horn were heard in many parts of Boston…  
      Louis read the article to the end and then tore it out of the paper. “Sam Beaver ought to know  
about this,” the thought. From the writing desk in his room, Louis took a pen and a sheet of letter  
paper. This is what he wrote:    
         Dear Sam,  
            I am spending the night at the Ritz in fashionable surroundings. You were right about  
         Boston—it is very pleasant. I was able to find work as soon as I arrived. I am associated  
         with  the  Swan  Boat  at  a  salary  of  $100  a  week.  You  may  be  interested  in  the  enclosed  
         clipping  from  today’s  paper.  If  all  goes  well,  I’ll  soon  have  enough  money  to  pay  my  
        father’s debt to the music store, and then I will own the trumpet free and clear and will  
         hope that by blowing it passionately I will be able to make a favorable impression on the  
         young female I am in love with. Then everybody will be happy: my father’s honor will be  
         restored, the music shop in Billing will be repaid, and I can take a wife. I hope you are well.  
         I miss you. A hotel room, even though it has every convenience, can be a lonely place.  
                                                                                     Your friend,    
                                                                                     Louis  
Louis addressed an envelope to Sam, folded the letter, fitted the newspaper clipping in, and found  
a six-cent stamp in his moneybag. He sealed the envelope, pasted the stamp on, and dropped the  
letter in a mail chute              outside the door of his room. “Now I’ll go to sleep,” he thought.    
                           （溜槽） 

      He went into the bathroom, used the toilet, then drew a full tub of cold water in the bathtub.  
He couldn’t get Serena out of his mind. How wonderful it would be if only she were here! Before  
settling down for the night, he picked up his trumpet and played the song he had composed for her  
when he was in Ontario:  
            Oh, ever in the greening spring,  
            By bank and bough retiring,    
            For love shall I be sorrowing   
            And swans of my desiring.  
He tried to play softly, but in a minute the phone rang in his room. Louis lifted the receiver and put  
it to his ear.    
      “I’m sorry, sir,” a voice said, “but I’ll have to ask you not to make so much noise. The Ritz  
does not allow its guests to play brass instruments in the bedrooms.”  
      Louis hung up the phone and put his trumpet away. Then he turned out the lights, climbed  
into the tub, curved his long neck around to the right, rested his head on his back, tucked his bill  

----------------------- Page 45-----------------------

                                                           Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                           http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

under his wing, and lay there, floating on the water, his head cradled softly in his feathers. Soon he  
was asleep,  dreaming  of little lakes in the north in the springtime,  dreaming  of  Serena, his true  
love.    
  

                                        Chapter 16    Philadelphia  
Louis worked all the last week of September for the Swan Boat man in the Boston Public Garden.  
He was a great success and was becoming famous. On Saturday, the Boatman paid him a hundred  
dollars in cash, which Louis placed carefully in his moneybag. The Boatman, after paying the first  
night’s bill at the Ritz Carlton Hotel, decided to let Louis sleep on the lake instead of in the hotel,  
and this suited Louis better. He slept with the ducks and geese on the lake, floating gracefully on  
the surface of the water, his head tucked under his wing.  
      Louis took good care of his trumpet. He kept it polished, and once a week he cleaned the spit  
out  of  it.  He  learned  new  songs  whenever  he  could,  by  listening  to  people’s  radios  and  by  
attending  concerts.  He  was  very  good  at  remembering  music  he  had  heard.  He  was  really  a  
natural-born musician—or, in his case, a natural-hatched musician.    
      One  song  he  liked  was  “Beautiful  Dreamer,  Wake  Unto  Me.”  Whenever  he  played  it,  he  
thought  of  Serena,  and  always,  when  he  finished  it,  the  passengers  on  the  Swan  Boat  clapped  
loudly and cheered. Louis liked applause. It made him feel lighthearted and gay.  
      Sometimes, at the  end  of the afternoon,  Louis  played “Now the Day Is Over.” He  made  it  
sound sweet and sad. One afternoon, when he was leading the last trip of the day, he played the  
“Cradle Song” by Brahms. The passengers sang the words:  
  
A boy in the front seat of the boat pulled an air rifle from under his jacket and began shooting BB  
shots at Louis’s trumpet. Whenever a shot hit the horn, it made a pinging sound. So the “Cradle  
Song” sounded something like this:    
            Lul-la-by (ping)  
            And good-night (ping)  
            With ros-es be-dight (ping)  
The children on the boat roared with laughter when they heard this, but the grown-up passengers  
were angry. One of them seized the boy’s rifle. Another went home that night and wrote a letter to  
the Boston Globe urging a stronger gun-control law.    
      On some afternoons, at the end of the day, people gathered on the shores of the lake to listen  
while  Louis played taps. It was a peaceful scene, a  memorable  hour. The Swan Boat had never  
enjoyed such popularity or made such a lot of money for the owner. But Louis knew that the boats  
would  not  run  all  winter.  In  a  few  days,  the  boats  would  be  hauled  out  for  the  season,  to  wait  
quietly for the arrival of spring.  
      One day, when Louis was waiting for the boat to take its passengers aboard, a Western Union  
messenger boy appeared on a bicycle.  
      “I have a telegram for the swan,” he said.  
      The Boatman seemed surprised, but he took the telegram and handed it to Louis, who opened  
it promptly. It was from a man in Philadelphia. The message said:  
      CAN OFFER YOU FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS A WEEK FOR    
      NIGHTCLUB SPORT. TEN WEEK ENGAGEMENT. PLEASE REPLY.  
                  (Signed) ABE (“LUCKY”) LUCAS  

----------------------- Page 46-----------------------

                                                       Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                       http://www.foxitsoftware.com        For evaluation only. 

                                            HOTEL MEMO  
Louis did some quick figuring. Five hundred dollars a week for ten weeks—that was five thousand  
dollars. Five thousand dollars would easily pay his father’s debt to the music store.  
      He took his slate and wrote:  
           OFFER ACCEPTED. ARRIVE TOMORROW. MEET ME AT BIRD LAKE    
           IN THE ZOO. SPLASHDOWN WILL BE AT FOUR FIFTY-TWO P.M. HOPE    
           THIS WILL BE A CONVENIENT TIME TO YOU.  
Louis showed the message to the Western Union boy, who copied it on a telegraph blank.  
      “Send it collect!” wrote Louis.  
      The  messenger  nodded  and  rode  away.  Louis  stepped  back  into  the  water,  the  boat’s  lines  
were cast off, and Louis led the way. He knew it was his last appearance with the Swan Boat, and  
he felt a little sad. It was a warm, quiet Sunday afternoon, the last Sunday in September. Louis  
played  all  his  favorite  tunes:  “Lazy  River,”  “Beautiful  Dreamer,”  “Oh,  Ever  in  the  Greening  
Spring,” “Now the Day Is Over,” and then, as the boat neared the dock, he raised his trumpet and  
blew taps.    
      The last note echoed from the walls of the Ritz and lingered over the Public Garden. It was a  
sad farewell. For the people of Boston, it meant the end of summer. For the Boatman, it meant the  
end of the best week of business he had ever had. For Louis, it meant the end of another chapter in  
his  adventurous  life,  out  in  the  big  world,  trying  to  earn  enough  money  to  get  his  father  and  
himself out of trouble. Louis slept peacefully that night, being very careful that his moneybag was  
safe. Next day he flew to Philadelphia to keep his appointment with Mr. Lucas, the man who had  
sent the telegram.    
      Louis had no trouble finding Philadelphia. Almost anybody can find Philadelphia who tries.  
Louis  simply  rose  into  the  air  with  all  his  things  around  his  neck,  and  when  he  was  about  a  
thousand  feet  high,  he  followed  the  railroad  tracks  to  Providence,  New  London,  New  Haven,  
Bridgeport, Rye, Mamaroneck, New Rochelle, Pelham, Mount Vernon, and the Bronx. When he  
saw the Empire State Building, he veered off to the right, crossed the Hudson River, and followed  
the  railroad  tracks  to  Newark  and  Trenton  and  points  south.  At  half  past  four,  he  reached  the  
Schuylkill  River.  Just  beyond,  he  spied  the  Philadelphia  Zoo.  Bird  Lake  looked  very  attractive  
from the air. It as crowded with waterfowl of all kinds—ducks and geese mostly. Louis thought he  
also saw two or three swans.  
      He circled, picked an open spot, and exactly at four fifty-two he splashed down. His trumpet  
banged against his slate, his slate knocked against his medal, his medal rapped against his chalk  
pencil,  and  his  chalk  pencil  on  its  string  would  itself  around  his  moneybag.  All  in  all,  the  
splashdown caused quite a commotion. The ducks and geese were not expecting anything like this  
to  happen—a  big  white  Trumpeter  Swan  dropping  down  out  of  the  sky,  loaded  with  personal  
possessions.    
      Louis paid no attention to the other birds. He had a date to keep. He saw a man leaning on the  
wide railing in front of the Bird House. The man was dressed in a purple suit and wore a Tyrolean  
hat. His face looked shrewd and wise, as though he knew a great many things, many of them not  
worth knowing.  
      “That must be Abe ‘Lucky’ Lucas,” thought Louis.  
      He swam quickly over.  
      “Ko-hoh!” he said, through his trumpet.  

----------------------- Page 47-----------------------

                                                       Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                       http://www.foxitsoftware.com        For evaluation only. 

      “My pleasure,” replied Mr. Lucas. “You are right on time. The splashdown was sensational.  
Welcome to the Philadelphia Zoo, which crawls with rare mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians,  
and fishes, including sharks, rays, and other fishlike vertebrates. Watch out for wild animals—this  
place is replete with them: snakes, zebras, monkeys, elephants, lions, tigers, wolves, foxes, bears,  
hippos, rhinos, woodchucks, skunks, hawks, and owls. I seldom come here; my work confines me  
to the throbbing heart of the city, among the money changers. I am under great pressure from my  
work. How was your trip from Boston?”  
      “Smooth,” wrote Louis on his slate. “I made good time. What about my job?”  
      “A happy question,” replied Mr. Lucas. “The job will start on October fifteenth. The contract  
has been finalized. You place of employment is a nightclub of great renown (名望；声誉), across the  
river—a  place  of  high  fashion  and  low  prices,  a  jumpy  joint.  You  will  be  called  upon  to  make  
appearances each evening except Sunday, and play your trumpet for the happy customers. Once in  
a while you can join a jazz group: ‘Louis the Swan on trumpet.’ The pay is very good. My spirits  
are  lifted  by  thinking  about  the  pay.  Wealth  and  happiness  are  around  the  corner  for  Louis  the  
 Swan and Lucky Lucas, the great of heart. My agent’s fee is ten percent, a mere bagatelle.”  
      “How do I get to the nightclub?” asked Louis, who only understood about half of what Mr.  
Lucas was saying.  
      “In a taxicab,” replied Mr. Lucas. “Be at the North Entrance of the Zoo, Girard Avenue and  
Thirty-fourth Street, at nine o’clock on the evening of October fifteenth, a night that will live in  
memory. A cab will await your pleasure and will transport you to the club. The driver is a friend of  
mine. He, too, is under pressure from his work.”  
      “Who’s going to pay for the cab?” asked Louis on his slate.  
      “I am,” replied Mr. Lucas. “Lucky Lucas, the generous of heart, pays for the cab for Louis  
the Swan. And by the way, I see that you are wearing a moneybag and that it is plump with moola  
                 . I suggest, from the kindness of my great heart, that you turn this moneybag over to  
  （钱包鼓鼓的） 

me for safekeeping during your stay in Philadelphia, a place of many thieves and pickpockets.”  
      “No, thank you,” wrote Louis. “Will keep moneybag myself.”  
      “Very well,” said Mr. Lucas. “And now there is one other small matter I must bring to your  
attention. Most of the birds that swim on this luxury lagoon                        have undergone surgery.  
                                                                    （泄湖；咸水湖） 

 Candor                  compels  me to tell you that the tip of  one wing is usually removed by the  
            （美洲兀鹰） 

management—a painless operation, popular with zoos the world over. ‘Pinioned ’ (被困住的) is the  
word for it, I believe. It detains            the water bird and prevents him from leaving the narrow  
                                      （阻止） 

confines of this public park and rising into the air, because when one wing is shorter than the other,  
the balance of the bird is upset. His attempt to take off would be crowned with failure. In short, he  
can’t fly. Sensing in advance the revulsion  (厌恶) you would feel toward having the tip of one of  
your powerful  wings removed,  I approached  the Man in Charge  of Birds and laid before  him a  
proposition           . He has agreed not to clip         you wing. It is arranged. He is a man of honor.  
              （提议）                                 (修剪)  

Your freedom  of  movement is assured. You will  not be pinioned. But in return for this so great  
favor on the part of the management of the Philadelphia Zoo, you are to give a free concert here at  
the lake every Sunday afternoon for the people of Philadelphia, the peasantry  (农民，总称), who  
come here to refresh themselves. Is it a deal?”  
      “Yes,” wrote Louis. “Will give Sunday concert.”  
      “Good!” said Mr. Lucas. “Farewell for the nonce                  ! Be at the North Entrance at nine!  
                                                               （暂时） 

October fifteen. A cab will await you. Play well, Sweet Swan! You will be the finest thing that has  

----------------------- Page 48-----------------------

                                                          Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                          http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

happened to Philadelphia since the Constitutional Convention of 1787.”    
      Louis didn’t understand this, but he nodded good-bye to Mr. Lucas and swam off toward the  
island  in  the  center  of  the  lake.  There  he  stepped  ashore,  straightened  his  things,  preened  his  
feathers, and rested. He was not sure he was going to like his new job. He was not sure he liked  
Mr. Lucas. But he needed money badly, and when you need money, you are willing to put up with  
difficulties  and  uncertainties.  One  good  thing  about  the  whole  business  was  the  Zoo  itself.  It  
seemed like an extremely nice place in spite of what he had heard about having your wing clipped.  
Louis had no intention of having a wing clipped.    
      “I’ll sock (重击) anybody who tries that one me!” he said to himself.  
      He was pleased to see so many other water birds. There were many kinds of ducks and geese.  
In the distance, he saw three Trumpeter Swans. They were old residents of the Lake. Their names  
were Curiosity, Felicity  （幸福）                         （冷漠） 
                                       , and Apathy             . Louis decided he would wait a day or two  
before making their acquaintance. Bird Lake has a fence around it. When the night came for him  
to start work, Louis polished his trumpet, put on all his things, flew over the fence, and landed at  
the North Entrance. He was there promptly at  nine.  The taxicab was there,  waiting, just as Mr.  
Lucas had promised. Louis got in and was driven away to his new job.    
  

                                             Chapter 17 Serena  
During the next ten weeks, Louis got rich. He went every evening except Sundays to the nightclub  
and  played his trumpet for the customers. He did  not like the job at all. The place was big and  
crowded and noisy. Everyone seemed to be talking too loudly, eating too much, and drinking too  
much.  Most  birds  like  to  go  to  sleep  at  sundown.  They  do  not  want  to  stay  up  half  the  night  
entertaining  people.  But  Louis  was  a  musician,  and  musicians  can’t  choose  their  working  
hours—they must work when their employer wants them to.    
      Every Saturday night Louis collected his pay—five hundred dollars. Mr. Lucas was always  
on hand to receive his agent’s fee of ten percent from Louis. After Louis had paid Mr. Lucas, he  
still had four hundred and fifty dollars left, and he would put this in his moneybag, hop into the  
waiting taxicab, and return to Bird Lake, arriving at around 3 A.M. His moneybag grew so stuffed  
with money, Louis was beginning to worry.  
      On Sunday afternoons, if the weather was good, crowds of people would gather on the shores  
of Bird Lake, and Louis would stand on the island in the middle of the lake and give a concert.  
This became a popular event in Philadelphia, where there isn’t much going on on Sunday. Louis  
took the concert very seriously. By playing for the people, he was earning the right to remain free  
and not having a wing clipped.  
      He  was  always  at  his  best  on  Sundays.  Instead  of  playing  jazz  and  rock  and  folk  and  
country-and-western, he would play selections from the works of the great composers—Ludwig  
van Beethoven, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, and Johann Sebastian Bach—music he had learned  
by listening to records at Camp Kookooskoos. Louis also liked the music of George Gershwin and  
Stephen Foster. When he played “Summertime” from Porgy and Bess, the people of Philadelphia  
felt that it was the most thrilling music they had ever heard. Louis was considered so good on the  
trumpet he was invited to make a guest appearance with the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra.    
      One  day,  about  a  week  before  Christmas,  a  great  storm  came  up.  The  sky  grew  dark.  The  
wind  blew  a  howling  gale.  It  made  a  whining  noise.  Windows  rattled.  Shutters  came  off  their  
hinges.  Old  newspapers  and  candy  wrappers  were  picked  up  by  the  wind  and  scattered  like  

----------------------- Page 49-----------------------

                                                         Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                         http://www.foxitsoftware.com         For evaluation only. 

confetti. Many of the creatures in the Zoo became restless and uneasy. Over in the Elephant House,  
the  elephants  trumpeted  in  alarm.  Lions  roared  and  paced  back  and  forth.  The  Great  Black  
Cocktatoo  screamed.  Keepers  rushed  here  and  there,  shutting  doors  and  windows  and  making  
everything secure against the awful force of the gale. The waters of Bird Lake were ruffled by the  
strong, mighty wind, and for a while the lake looked like a small ocean. Many of the water birds  
sought protection on the island.  
      Louis  rode  out  the  gale  on  the  lake,  in  the  lee  of  the  island.  He  faced  the  wind  and  kept  
paddling with his feet, his eyes bright with wonder at the strength of the blast. Suddenly he saw an  
object in the sky. It was coming down out of the clouds. At first, he couldn’t make out what it was.  
      “Maybe it’s a flying saucer,” he thought.  
      Then he realized that it was a large white bird, struggling desperately to come in against the  
wind. Its wings were beating rapidly. In a moment it splashed down and flopped  (扑通落下) ashore,  
where it lay sprawled out                          , almost as if it were dead. Louis stared and stared and  
                                （四肢伸开躺卧） 

stared. Then he looked again.    
      “it looks like a swan,” he thought.  
      It was a swan.  
      “It looks like a Trumpeter Swan,” he thought.  
      It was a Trumpeter Swan.    
      “My goodness,” said Louis to himself, “it looks like Serena. It  is Serena. She’s here at last.  
My prayers have been answered!”    
      Louis was right. Serena, the swan of his desiring, had been caught by the fierce storm and  
blown  all  the  way  across  America.  When  she  looked  down  and  saw  Bird  Lake,  she  ended  her  
flight, almost dead from exhaustion.  
      Louis was tempted to rush right over. But then he thought, “No, that would be a mistake. She  
is in no condition at the moment to perceive the death of my affection and the extent of my love.  
She is too pooped. I will wait. I will bide my time. I will give her a chance to recover. Then I will  
renew our acquaintance and make myself known.”  
      Louis did not go to his job that night; the weather was too bad. All night, he stayed awake,  
keeping watch, at a slight distance from his beloved. When morning came, the wind subsided. The  
skies cleared.  The lake  grew  calm. The storm was  over. Serena stirred and  woke. She was still  
exhausted, and very mussy. Louis stayed away from her.  
      “I’ll just wait,” he thought. “When  in love,  one  must take risks. But I’m  not  going to risk  
everything  with  a  bird  who  is  too  tired  to  see  straight.  I  won’t  hurry,  and  I  won’t  worry.  Back  
home on Upper Red Rock Lake, I was without voice; she ignored me because I could not tell her  
of my love. Now, thanks to my brave father, I have my trumpet. Through the power of music, I  
will impress her with the intensity of my desire and the strength of my devotion. She will hear me  
say ko-hoh. I’ll tell her I love her in a language anybody can understand, the language of music.  
She will hear the trumpet of the swan, and she will be mine. At least, I hope she will.”  
      Usually, if a strange bird appeared on Bird Lake, one of the keepers would report its arrival to  
the Head Man in Charge of Birds, whose office was in the Bird House. The Head Man would then  
give the order to have the new bird pinioned—have one of its wings clipped. But today, the keeper  
who  usually  tended  the  waterfowl  was  sick  with  the  flu  and  had  not  come  to  work.  Nobody  
noticed that a new Trumpeter Swan had arrived. Serena was being very quiet, anyway—she was  
not attracting any attention. There were no five Trumpeters on the lake. There were the original  

----------------------- Page 50-----------------------

                                                        Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                        http://www.foxitsoftware.com        For evaluation only. 

three captive swans, Curiosity, Felicity, and Apathy. There was, of course, Louis. And now there  
was the new arrival, Serena, still exhausted but beginning to revive.  
      Toward the end of the afternoon, Serena roused herself, looked at her surroundings, had a bite  
to eat, took a bath, then walked out of the water and stood for a long while preening her feathers.  
She  felt  distinctly  better.  And  when  her  feathers  were  all  smoothed  out,  she  looked  extremely  
beautiful—stately, serene, graceful, and very feminine.  
      Louis trembled when he saw how truly lovely she was. He was again tempted to swim over  
and say ko-hoh and see if she remembered him. But he had a better idea.  
      “There is no hurry,” he thought. “She’s not going to leave Philadelphia tonight. I will go to  
my  job,  and  when  I  get  back  from  work,  I  shall  abide  near  her  all  through  the  night.  Just  at  
daylight,  I’ll  awaken  her  with  a  song  of  love  and  desire.  She  will  be  drowsy;  the  sound  of  my  
trumpet will enter her sleepy brain and overcome her with emotion. My trumpet will be the first  
sound she hears. I will be irresistible. I will be the first thing she sees when she opens her eyes,  
and she will love me from that moment on.”  
      Louis  was  well  satisfied  with  his  plan  and  began  to  make  preparations.  He  swam  ashore,  
removed his things, hid them under a bush, then returned to the water, where he fed and bathed.  
Then he fixed his feathers carefully. He wanted to look his best next morning, when the meeting  
was to take place. He drifted around for a while, thinking of all the songs he liked and trying to  
decide which one to play “Beautiful Dreamer, Wake Unto Me.” He had always loved that song. It  
was sad and sweet.    
      “She will be a beautiful dreamer,” thought Louis, “and she will wake unto me. The song fits  
the situation perfectly.”  
      He was determined to play the song better than he had played it before. It was one of his best  
numbers.  He  really  knew  how  to  play  it  awfully  well.  Once,  when  he  played  it  at  one  of  his  
Sunday concerts, as music critic from a Philadelphia newspaper heard him, and next morning the  
paper said: “Some of  his notes are like jewels  held  up to the light. The emotion  he transmits is  
clean and pure and sustained.” Louis had memorized that statement. He was proud of it.  
      Now he was anxious for morning to come, but he still had his job at the nightclub to go to.  
He knew the night would be long and that he wouldn’t be able to sleep.  
      Louis  swam  ashore  to  pick  up  his  things.  When  he  looked  under  the  bush,  he  received  a  
terrible jolt  （震惊） 
                        : his medal was there, his slate and chalk pencil was there, his moneybag was  
there, but where was his trumpet? His trumpet was gone. Poor Louis! His heart almost stopped.  
“Oh, no!” he said to himself. “Oh, no!” Without his trumpet, his whole life would be ruined, all  
his plans for the future would collapse.  
      He was frantic with anger and fear and dismay. He dashed back into the water and looked up  
and down the lake. Far off, he saw a small Wood Duck that seemed to have something shiny in its  
mouth.  It  was  the  trumpet,  all  right!  The  duck  was  trying  to  play  it.  Louis  was  furious.  He  
skimmed down the lake, going even faster than he had on the day he had saved Applegate from  
drowning. He swam straight for the duck, knocked him  on the head with a swift blow from his  
wing, and grabbed the precious trumpet. The duck fainted. Louis wiped the horn, blew the spit out  
of it, and hung it around his neck, where it belonged.  
      Now  he was ready. “Let the  night come! Let the hours pass! Let  morning come, when  my  
beautiful dreamer wakes unto me!”  
      Night came at last. Nine o’clock came. Louis went off to work, riding in the cab. The Zoo  

----------------------- Page 51-----------------------

                                                        Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                        http://www.foxitsoftware.com         For evaluation only. 

quieted down.  The visitors had all gone home. Many of the animals slept or snoozed. A few  of  
them—the  great  cats,  the  raccoon  (浣熊) ，the  armadillo              （犰狳）,  the  ones  that  enjoy  the  

                         （徘徊，潜行） 
nighttime—prowled                      and became restless. Bird Lake was clothed in darkness. Most of  
the waterfowl  tucked their  heads  under their  wings and  slept. At  one  end  of the  lake, the three  
captives  swans—Curiosity,  Felicity,  and  Apathy—were  already  asleep.  Near  the  island,  Serena,  
the beautiful Serena, was fast asleep and dreaming. Her long white neck was folded neatly back;  
her head rested on soft feathers.    
      Louis got home from work at two in the morning. He flew in over the low fence and splashed  
down near Serena, making as little noise as possible. He did not try to sleep. The night was fair  
and  crisp,  as  nights  often  are  just  before  Christmas.  Clouds  drifted  across  the  sky  in  endless  
procession, partially hiding the stars. Louis watched the clouds, watched Serena as she slept, and  
waited for day to come—hour after hour after hour.  
      At last, a faint light showed in the east. Soon, creatures would be stirring, morning would be  
here.    
      “This is my moment,” thought Louis. “The time has come for me to waken my true love.”  
      He placed himself directly in front of Serena. Then he raised the trumpet to his  mouth. He  
tilted his head: the horn pointed slightly upward toward the sky, where the first light was showing.  
      He began his song.  
      “Beautiful dreamer,” he played, “wake unto me…”  
      The  first  three  or  four  notes  were  played  softly.  Then  as  the  song  progressed,  the  sound  
increased; the light in the sky grew brighter.  
  
      Each note was like a jewel held to the light. The sound of Louis’s trumpet had never before  
been heard at this early dawn-hour in the Zoo, and the sound seemed to fill the whole world of  
buildings and animals and tress and shrubs and paths and dens and cages. Sleepy bears, dozing in  
their grotto, pricked up their ears. Foxes, hiding in their dens, listened to the sweet and  dreamy  
sound of the  horn blown at the coming of light. In the Lion House, the  great cats heard. In the  
Monkey House, the old baboon listened in wonder to the song.  
           Beau—ti—ful dream—er, wake un-to me…  
      The hippo heard, and the seal in his tank. The gray wolf heard, and the yak  (牦牛) in his cage.  
The badger, the coon, the Ring-tailed Coati   （长鼻浣熊） 
                                                                , the skunk, the weasel, the otter, the llama  
           , the dromedary                  , the White-tailed Deer—all heard, listened, pricked up  their  
 （美洲陀）                         （单峰骆驼） 

ears at the song. The kudu                  heard, and the rabbit. The beaver heard, and the snake, who  
                                 （条纹羚） 

has no ears. The wallaby       （小袋鼠）                      （负鼠） 
                                         , the possum             , the anteater, the armadillo, the peafowl   

 （孔雀）                                     （园丁鸟）                        （风头鹦鹉）                         （火烈鸟） 
          , the pigeon, the bowerbird                , the cockatoo                 , the flamingo   
—all heard, all were aware that something out of the ordinary was happening.    
      Philadeophians,  waking  from  sleep  in  bedrooms  where  the  windows  were  open,  heard  the  
trumpet. Not one person who heard the song realized that this was the moment of triumph for a  
young swan who had a speech defect and had conquered it.    
      Louis was not thinking about his large, unseen audience of animals and people. His mind was  
not on bears and buffaloes and cassowaries                     and lizards and hawks and owls and people  
                                                    （食火鸡） 

in bedrooms. His mind was on Serena, the swan of his choice, the beautiful dreamer. He played  
for her and for her alone.    
      At the first note from his trumpet, she woke. She raised her head and her neck straightened  

----------------------- Page 52-----------------------

                                                       Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                       http://www.foxitsoftware.com        For evaluation only. 

until  her head  was  held  high. What she saw  filled  her  with astonishment. She  gazed straight at  
Louis.  At  first,  she  could  hardly  remember  where  she  was.  Directly  in  front  of  her,  she  saw  a  
handsome young  male swan, a cob  of  noble  proportions. Held against his  mouth was a strange  
instrument—something she had never seen before. And from this strange instrument came sounds  
that made her tremble with joy and with love. As the song went on, as the light grew stronger, she  
fell  hopelessly  in  love  with  this  bold  trumpeter  who  had  awakened  her  from  her  dreams.  The  
dreams  of  night  were  gone.  New  dreams  of  day  were  upon  her.  She  knew  that  she  was  full  of  
sensations she had never had before – feelings of delight and ecstasy and wonder.  
      She had never seen a finer-looking young cob. She had certainly never seen any swan with so  
many personal possessions around his neck. And she had never been so thrilled by a sound before  
in her whole life.  
      “Oh!” she thought. “Oh, oh, oh, ho!”  
      The song ended. Louis lowered his trumpet and bowed solemnly to Serena his trumpet and  
bowed solemnly to Serena. Then he raised his horn again.  
      “Ko-hoh!” he said.  
      “Ko-hoh!” replied Serena.  
      “Ko-hoh, ko-hoh!” said Louis through his trumpet.    
      “Ko-hoh, ko-hoh!” replied Serena.  
      Each felt drawn to the other by a mysterious bond of affection.  
      Louis swam once rapidly around Serena.  
      Then Serena swam once rapidly around Louis. This seemed to amuse them.  
      Louis dipped his neck and pumped it back and forth.  
      Serena dipped his neck and pumped it back and forth.  
      Louis splashed a little water into the air. Serena splashed a little water into the air. It was like  
a game. It was love at long last for Louis; it was love at first sight for Serena.  
      Then Louis decided to show off. “I’ll play her my own composition,” he thought. “The one I  
made up for her last summer at camp.” Again he raised his trumpet.  
           Oh, ever in the greening spring  
           By bank and bough retiring,  
           For love shall I be sorrowing  
           And swans of my desiring.  
The notes were clear and pure. They filled the Zoo with beauty. If Serena had been in any doubt  
before, she no longer was. She succumbed                      completely to this charmer, this handsome  
                                                   （屈服于） 

musician, this rich and talented cob.    
      Louis  knew  that  his  plan  had  succeeded.  His  beautiful  dreamer  had  waked,  and  she  had  
waked  unto  him.  Never  again  would  they  be  parted.  All  the  rest  of  their  lives  they  would  be  
together. Thoughts of small quiet lakes in the woods, where canebrakes grew and blackbirds sang,  
filled  Louis’s  mind.  Thoughts  of  springtime  and  nesting  and  little  cygnets.  Oh,  ever  in  the  
greening spring!  
      Louis had been told once by his father what happened to deep-sea divers when they go far,  
far  down  into  the  ocean.  At  great  depths,  where  the  pressure  is  great  and  the  watery  world  is  
strange  and  mysterious,  divers  sometimes  experience  what  they  call  the  “rapture  of  the  deep.”  
They feel so completely peaceful and enchanted, they never want to return to the surface. Louis’s  
father  had warned him about this. “Always remember,  when you  dive  deep,” he  had said, “that  

----------------------- Page 53-----------------------

                                                            Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                            http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

this feeling of rapture can lead you to your death. No matter how wonderful you feel down there,  
don’t ever forget to return to the surface, where you can breathe again!”    
      Looking at Serena, Louis thought to himself, “I think love is like the rapture of the deep. I  
feel so good I just want to stay right where I am. I’m experiencing rapture of the deep even though  
I’m  right  on  top  of  the  water.  I  have  never  felt  so  good,  so  peaceful,  so  excited,  so  happy,  so  
ambitious,  so  desirous.  If  love  is  like  this  on  a  cold  day  in  December  in  the  Philadelphia  Zoo,  
imagine what it’s going to be like in spring on a remote lake in Canada!”  
      These were Louis’s secret thoughts. He was the happiest bird alive. He was a real Trumpeter  
Swan at last. His defect of being without a voice had at last been overcome. He felt very grateful  
to his father.  
      Cautiously, he placed  his  head across Serena’s long beautiful white neck. It seemed a very  
daring  thing  to  do,  but  she  seemed  to  like  it.  Then  he  backed  away.  Serena  swam  toward  him.  
Cautiously, she placed her head across his neck. It rested there for a moment; then she swam away.  
      “What a daring thing!” she thought. “But he seems to like it. How  pleasing to  know that I  
have found an acceptable mate—a cob I can love and respect, a cob that appears to be not only  
musical but also quite wealthy. Look at all those things!” said Serena to herself. Her eyes feasted  
on the trumpet, the slate, the chalk pencil, the moneybag, the lifesaving medal.  
      “What a gay cob!” she thought. “What a dressy fellow!”  
      They swam off together toward the other end of the lake, where they could be alone. Then  
Louis, who was short on sleep, dozed off, while Serena at her breakfast and fixed herself up.    
  

                                             Chapter 18 Freedom  
The news of Serena’s arrival on Bird lake had finally reached the Head Man in Charge of Birds.  
He went out to look at her and was delighted. Then he gave an order to one of his keepers.  
      “See to it that she is pinioned this morning—right away, before she flies off and leaves us.  
That swan is a valuable bird. Make sure she doesn’t get away!”  
      Louis was just waking from his nap when he saw two keepers approaching Serena, who was  
standing on the shore near the ornamental fence. One keeper carried a large net with a long handle.  
The  other  carried  surgical  instruments.  They  were  sneaking  up  on  Serena  from  behind,  very  
slowly and quietly.  
      Louis knew right away what they were up to. He grew hot with rage. If those men succeeded  
in catching Serena and cutting a wing tip, all his plans would go wrong—she could never fly away  
to a lonely lake with him; she would have to remain in Philadelphia the rest of his life, a horrible  
fate.    
      “This is my  moment,” thought Louis. “Nobody is going to clip  my Love’s wing while  I’m  
around.”  
      He hustled over to the island and stripped for action. He chucked his trumpet and all his other  
stuff under a willow tree. Then he returned to the water and waiter for the right time to attack.  
      The  keeper  holding  the  net  was  crawling  quietly  up  on  Serena  from  the  rear.  She  did  not  
notice him—she was just standing there, dreaming of Louis. Slowly, slowly the keeper raised his  
net.  As  he  did  so,  Louis  went  into  action.  Lowering  his  long,  powerful  neck  until  it  pointed  
straight out in front of him like a lance, he streaked across (飞跑) the water, straight at the keeper,  
his wings beating the air, his feet beating the water. In a flash, he reached the scene and drove his  
strong bill straight into the seat of the man’s pants. It was a well-aimed jab. The keeper doubled up  

----------------------- Page 54-----------------------

                                                        Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                        http://www.foxitsoftware.com         For evaluation only. 

in pain and dropped the net. The other keeper tried to grab Serena by her throat. Louis beat him  
over  the  head  with  his  wings,  striking  terrific  blows  and  knocking  the  poor  fellow  off  his  feet.  
Surgical instruments bounced into the air. The net fell into the water. One keeper groaned and held  
his hand on his behind, where he had been stabbed. The other keeper lay on the ground, almost  
knocked out.  
      Serena  slipped  quickly  into  the  water  and  glided  gracefully  away.  Louis  followed.  He  
motioned for her to stay on the lake. Then he raced back to the island, grabbed his trumpet, his  
slate, his chalk pencil, his medal, and his moneybag, flew over the balustrade, and walked boldly  
into the Bird House. He was still mad. He went straight to the office of the Head Man in Charge of  
Birds. He rapped on the door.  
      “Come in!” said a voice.  
      Louis entered. The Head Man was seated at his desk.    
      “Hello, Louis!” he said.    
      “Ko-hoh!” replied Louis through his trumpet.  
      “What’s on your mind?” asked the man.  
      Louis placed his trumpet on the floor and took his slate and chalk pencil from his neck. “I’m  
in love,” he wrote.  
      The Head  man leaned back in  his chair and  put  his  hands behind  his  head. His face had a  
faraway look. He gazed out of the window for a moment in silence.  
      “Well,” he said, “it’s natural that you’re in love. You’re young. You’re talented. In a couple of  
months, spring will be here. All birds fall in love in springtime. I suppose you’re in love with one  
of my young swans.”  
      “Serena,” wrote  Louis. “She arrived the  day before  yesterday. I used to know  her slightly,  
back in Montana. She loves me, too.”    
      “That  doesn’t  surprise  me,”  said  the  Head  Man.  “You’re  a  very  unusual  young  cob.  Any  
young female swan would fall for you. You’re a great trumpeter—one of the best. I’m delighted to  
hear about this love affair, Louis. You and your bride can stay right here on Bird Lake and raise  
your family in comfort and safety, in the oldest zoo in the United States.”  
      Louis shook his head.  
      “I have other plans,” he wrote. Then he set his slate down and raised his trumpet. “They say  
that falling in love is wonderful…” It as an old song by Irving Berlin. The room was filled with  
the sound of love. The Head Man had a dreamy look in his eyes.    
      Louis set his horn down and took up his slate again. “I am taking Serena away with me in a  
day or two,” he wrote.  
      “Oh, no you’re not!” said the Head man firmly. “Serena now belongs to the Zoo. She is the  
property of the people of Philadelphia. She came here because of an act of God.”  
      “It wasn’t an act of God,” wrote Louis. “It was a high wind.”  
      “Well, anyway,” said the Head Man, “she’s my swan.”    
      “No,  she’s  mine,”  wrote  Louis.  “She’s  mine  by  reason  of  the  power  of  love—the  greatest  
force on earth.”  
      The Head Man became thoughtful. “You can’t take Serena from the Zoo. She will never fly  
again. My keepers clipped one of her wings a few minutes ago.”  
      “They tried to,” wrote Louis, “but I beat them up.”  
      The Head Man looked surprised. “Was it a good fight?”  

----------------------- Page 55-----------------------

                                                          Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                          http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

      “It was a fair fight,” replied Louis. “They were sneaking up on her from behind, so I sneaked  
up on them from behind. They hardly knew what hit them.”    
      The Head Man chuckled. “I wish I’d seen it,” he said. “But look here, Louis, you’ve got to  
realize the position I’m in. I have a duty to the people of Philadelphia. Within the last couple of  
months, I’ve acquired two rare birds by accident—you and Serena. Two Trumpeter Swans! One  
arrived  here blown by a gale, the  other to keep a nightclub engagement.  The  whole business is  
most  unusual  for  a  zoo.  I  have  my  responsibility  to  the  public.  It  is  my  duty  as  Head  Man  in  
Charge of Birds to see that Serena stays. You yourself, of course, are free to leave when you want  
to, because Mr. Lucas insisted that you remain free when we arranged for your Sunday concerts.  
But in Serena’s case… well, Louis, she’s got to have her left wing tip amputated. The Zoo can’t  
afford to lose a young, beautiful, valuable Trumpeter Swan just because you  happen to be in love.  
Besides, I think you’re making a great mistake. If you and Serena stay here, you’ll be safe. You’ll  
have no enemies. You’ll have no worries about your children. No fox, no otter, no coyote will ever  
attack you with intent to kill. You’ll never go hungry. You’ll never get shot. You’ll never die of  
lead poisoning from eating the shotgun pellets  (靶丸) that are on the bottom of all natural lakes and  
ponds.  Your  cygnets  will  be  hatched  each  spring  and  will  live  a  long  life  in  perfect  ease  and  
comfort. What more can a young cob ask?”  
      “Freedom,” replied Louis on his slate. “Safety is all well and good: I prefer freedom.” With  
that, he picked up his trumpet and played “Button up your overcoat, when the wind blows free…”  
      The Head Man smiled. He knew just what Louis meant. For a while the two remained silent.  
Louis  put  his  trumpet  aside.  Then  he  wrote:  “I  ask  two  favors.  First,  put  off  the  operation  on  
Serena  until  after  Christmas—I’ll  guarantee  she  won’t  try  to  escape.  Second,  let  me  send  a  
telegram.”  
      “O.K., Louis,” replied the Head Man. And  he  handed  Louis a sheet  of  paper and a pencil.  
Louis wrote out a telegram to Sam Beaver. It said:  
            AM IN THE PHILADELPHIA ZOO. THIS IS AN EMERGENCY. COME AT ONCE.    
            I WILL PAY YOUR PLANE FARE. AM NOW WEALTHY.  
                              (Signed) LOUIS  
He handed the telegram to the Head Man along with four dollars from his money bag. The Head  
Man was astounded (受惊骇的). In all his days at the Zoo, this was the first time one of his birds  
asked him to send a telegram. And of course he didn’t know who Sam Beaver was. But he sent the  
wire and ordered his keepers to let Serena alone for a few days—which they were glad to do.  
      Louis thanked him and left. He returned to Serena, and they spent the day happily together,  
bathing, swimming, eating, drinking, and showing each other in a thousand small ways how much  
they loved each other.  
        
      Sam arrived at the Zoo on the day after Christmas. He was equipped as though he were going  
into the woods. Under one arm was a sleeping bag, neatly rolled. On his back was a rucksack                      （帆 
布背包）containing  his  toothbrush,  his  comb,  a  clean  shirt,  a  hand  ax,  a  pocket  compass,  his  
notebook, a pencil, and some food. In his belt was a shunting knife. Sam was fourteen now and  
big for his age. He had  never seen a large zoo. He and  Louis were  overjoyed to see each other  
again.  
      Louis  introduced  Sam  to  Serena.  Then  he  opened  his  moneybag  and  showed  Sam  his  
earnings:  hundred-dollar  bills,  fifty-dollar  bills,  twenty-dollar  bills,  tens,  fives,  ones,  and  some  

----------------------- Page 56-----------------------

                                                           Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                           http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

silver coins—a great pile.  
      “Goodness!” thought Sam. “I hope she’s not marrying him for his money.”  
      Louis took his slate and told Sam about the fight with the keepers and about how the Head  
Man wanted to keep Serena captive by clipping the tip of one wing. He told Sam it would ruin his  
life if Serena were to lose the power to fly. He explained that as soon as his father’s debts were  
paid and the trumpet honestly belonged to him, he and Serena intended to leave civilization and  
return to a wild life. “The sky,” he wrote on his slate, “is my living room. The woods are my parlor.  
The lonely lake is my bath. I can’t remain behind a fence all my life. Neither can Serena—she’s  
not built that way. Somehow or other we must persuade the Head Man to let Serena go.”  
      Sam  stretched  out  on  the  shore  of  Bird  Lake  and  clasped  his  hands  behind  his  head.  He  
looked up at the great wide sky. It was a clear blue, with small white clouds floating slowly across.  
Sam knew how Louis felt about freedom. For a long time he lay there, thinking. Ducks and geese  
swam slowly by, back and forth, an endless procession of captive birds. They seemed happy and  
well. Curiosity, Felicity, and Apathy—the three Trumpeters—swam by and peered at the strange  
boy lying on the ground. Finally Sam sat up.  
      “Listen, Louis,”  he said. “How’s this  for an idea? You  and  Serena intend to raise a family  
every year, don’t you?”  
      “Certainly,” replied Louis on his slate.  
      “O.K.,” said Sam. “in every family of cygnets, there is always one that needs special care and  
protection. Bird Lake would be a perfect place for this one little swan that needs extra security.  
This is a beautiful lake, Louis. This is a great zoo. If I can persuade the Head Man to let Serena  
remain free, would you be willing to donate one of your cygnets, now and then, if the Zoo needs  
another swan for the lake? If you agree, I’ll go right in and see the Head man about the matter.”  
      It was now Louis’s turn to think and think. After five minutes, he picked up his slate.  
      “Very well,” he wrote. “It’s a deal.”  
      Then he picked up his trumpet. “Oh, ever in the greening spring,” he played. “By bank and  
bough retiring…”    
      The waterfowl stopped swimming and listened. The keepers stopped what they were doing  
and listened. Sam listened. The Head Man in his office in the Bird House laid down his pencil,  
leaned back in  his  chair, and listened.  The sound  of  Louis’s horn was in the air, and the  whole  
world seemed better and brighter and wilder and freer and happier and dreamier.  
      “That’s a good tune,” said Sam. “What is it?”  
      “Oh, just something I made up myself,” wrote Louis on his slate.    
  

                                    Chapter 19 A Talk About Money  
  
In almost everyone’s life there is one event that changes the whole course of his existence. The  
day Sam Beaver visited the Philadelphia Zoo was the turning point in his life. Up until the next  
day, he had not been able to decide what he wanted to be when he grew up. The minute he saw the  
Zoo all his doubts vanished. He knew he wanted to work in a zoo. Sam loved every living thing,  
and the zoo is a great storehouse of the living things—it has just about every creature that creeps  
or crawls or jumps or runs or flies or hides.  
    Sam was eager to see them all. But he has Louis’s problem to solve first. He must save Serena  
from captivity. So he picked up his rucksack and his sleeping bag and walked into the Bird House  

----------------------- Page 57-----------------------

                                                        Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                         http://www.foxitsoftware.com        For evaluation only. 

and entered the office. He walked tall and straight , as though he were on a forest trail. The Head  
Man liked Sam’s appearance and noticed that the looked a little like an Indian.  
    “So you’re Sam Beaver,” said the Head Man, as Sam advanced on him.  
    “Why did you come here?” asked the Head Man.  
    “To defend freedom,” replied Sam. “I heard you intended to clip the wing of a swan. I’m here to  
ask you not to do it.”  
    Sam sat down, and they talked for a whole hour. Sam assured the Head Man that Louis was an  
old friend. He told about discovering the swan’s nest almost three years ago in Canada, about how  
Louis came into the world lacking voice, about Louis’s attending school in Montana and learning  
to read and write, about the theft of the trumpet by Louis’s father, the old cob, and about Camp  
Kookooskoos and the Swam Boat in Boston.  
    The  Head  Man  listened  with  great  attention,  but  he  wasn’t  sure  he  believed  a  word  of  this  
strange tale.    
    Then Sam explained his  proposal for allowing Serena to  go  free instead  of  making a captive  
bird out of her. He said he thought it would be a good arrangement for the Zoo, because any time  
they wanted a young Trumpeter Swan, Louis would give them one of his cygnets. The Head Man  
was fascinated.  
    “You mean to say you came all the way to Philadelphia to help a bird?’  
    “Yes, sir,” replied Sam. “I would go anywhere to help a bird. Besides, Louis is special. He’s an  
old friend. We went to the same school. You’ve go to admit he’s quite a bird.”  
    “He  sure  is,”  said  the  Head  Man.  “His  Sunday  afternoon  concerts  have  been  the  biggest  
attraction the Zoo has ever had. We had a gorilla once named Bamboo—he’s dead now. Bamboo  
was great, but Louis draws even more of a crowd than Bamboo did. We have sea lions that draw  
big crowds, but  nothing to compare with  Louis  when  he plays that horn  on Sunday afternoons.  
People  go  crazy.  And  music  is  good  for  the  animals,  too—it  soothes  them,  and  they  forget  the  
cares of the day. I’m going to miss Louis when he’s gone. The whole Zoo will miss him terribly. I  
wish he’d stay and keep his bride right here—it would be just great.”  
      “Louis would pine away  (消瘦，憔悴) in captivity. He would die,” replied Sam. “He needs wild  
places—little ponds, swamps, cattails,                    Red-winged Blackbirds in the spring, the chorus  
                                             （猫尾香蒲） 

of the frogs, the cry of the loon               at night. Louis is following a dream. We must all follow a  
                                      （潜鸟） 

dream. Please let Serena go, sir! Please don’t clip her wing!”    
      The Head Man closed his eyes. He was thinking of little lakes deep in the woods, of the color  
of  bulrushes (芦苇，灯心草), of the sounds of night and  the chorus of frogs. He was thinking of  
swans’ nests, and eggs, and the hatching of eggs, and the cygnets following their father in single  
file. He was thinking of dreams he had had as a young man.    
      “All right,” he said, suddenly. “Serena can go. We will not clip her wing. But how can I be  
sure that Louis will bring  me a young  Trumpeter Swan  when I  need  one? How do I  know  he’s  
honest?”  
      “He’s an honorable bird,” said Sam. “If he weren’t honest and true to his word, he wouldn’t  
have bothered to go out and earn a lot of money to pay the store-keeper back for the trumpet his  
father swiped. (偷窃)”  
      “How much money has Louis got, anyway?” asked the Head Man.  
      “He’s got four thousand six hundred and ninety-one dollars and sixty-five cents,” said Sam.  
“We just counted it a few minutes ago. He received one hundred dollars from Camp Kookooskoos  

----------------------- Page 58-----------------------

                                                        Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                        http://www.foxitsoftware.com         For evaluation only. 

for  playing  bugle  calls,  and  all  he  spent  was  sixty  cents  for  postage  stamps.  So  he  arrived  in  
Boston  with  ninety-nine  dollars  and  forty  cents.  Then  the  Swan  Boat  man  paid  him  a  hundred  
dollars for one week’s work, but he spent three dollars in tips at the hotel where he spent a night.  
So  he  had  a  hundred  and  ninety-six  dollars  and  forty  cents  when  he  got  to  Philadelphia.  The  
nightclub  paid  him  five  thousand  dollars,  but  he  had  to  pay  his  agent  ten  percent  of  the  five  
thousand dollars, and he also spent seventy-five cents for some new chalk pencils and four dollars  
to send the telegram to  me.  So that  makes a total  of four thousand six hundred and  ninety-one  
dollars and sixty-five cents. It’s a lot of money for a bird.”  
      “It sure is,” said the Head Man. “It sure is.”  
      “But he is going to pay my airplane fare from Montana to Philadelphia and back again. That  
will  bring  the  total  down  to  four  thousand  four  hundred  and  twenty  dollars  and  seventy-eight  
cents.”  
      The Head Man looked staggered                     by these figures.  
                                              （吃惊的） 

      “It’s still a lot of money for a bird,” he said. “What’s he going to do with it all?”    
      “He will give it to his father, the old cob.”  
      “And what’s he going to do with it?”  
      “He will fly back to the music store in Billings and give it to the owner, to pay for the stolen  
trumpet.”  
      “Give all of it?”  
      “Yes.”  
      “But a strumpet isn’t worth four thousand four hundred and twenty dollars and seventy-eight  
cents.”  
      “I know,” said Sam. “But there was some damage to the store itself. The old cob was going  
like  the  dickens            when  he  crashed  through  the  plate-glass  window.  He  shook  things  up  
                     （魔鬼） 

pretty badly.”    
      “Yes,” said the Head Man. “But it still wouldn’t take all that money to make things right.”    
      “I guess not,” said Sam. “But Louis has no use for money anymore, so he’s going to turn it all  
over to the owner of the music store.”  
      The subject of money seemed to interest the Head Man greatly. He thought how pleasant it  
would be not to have any more use for money. He leaned back in his chair. He found it hard to  
believe that one of his swans had been able to save more than four thousand dollars and that the  
money was right out there, hanging around his neck in a moneybag.  
      “When it  comes to  money,” he said, “birds have it easier than  men do. When a bird earns  
some  money,  it’s  almost  all  clear  profit.  A  bird  doesn’t  have  to  go  to  a  supermarket  and  buy  a  
dozen eggs and a pound of butter and two rolls of paper towels and a TV dinner and a can of Ajax  
and  a  can  of  tomato  juice  and  a  pound  and  a  half  of  ground  round  steak  and  a  can  of  sliced  
peaches and two quarts of fat-free milk and a bottle of stuffed olives. A bird doesn’t have to pay  
rent on a house, or interest on a mortgage. A bird doesn’t insure its life with an insurance company  
and then have to pay premiums on the policy. A bird doesn’t own a car and buy gas and oil and  
pay for repairs on the car and take the car to a car wash and pay to get it washed. Animals and  
birds are lucky. They don’t keep acquiring things, the way men do. You can teach a monkey to  
drive a motorcycle, but I have never known a monkey to go out and buy a motorcycle.”  
      “That’s right,” replied Sam. “But some animals do like to acquire things, even though they  
don’t pay anything for them.”  

----------------------- Page 59-----------------------

                                                           Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                           http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

      “Such as?” asked the Head Man.  
      “A rat,” said Sam. “A rat will fix up a home for himself, but then he’ll bring home all sorts of  
little objects—trinkets and stuff. Anything he can find that catches his eye.”  
      “You’re right,” said the Head Man. “You’re absolutely right, Sam. You seem to know quite a  
lot about animals.”  
      “I like animals,” said Sam. “I love to watch them.”  
      “Then come with  me and we’ll explore the  Zoo,” said the Head Man, getting  up  from  his  
chair. “I don’t feel like working anymore today. I’ll show you the Zoo.” And away they went, the  
two of them.  
      That  night  Sam  slept  in  the  Head  Man’s  office,  by  special  permission.  He  unrolled  his  
sleeping  bag  on  the  floor  and  crawled  in.  The  plane  taking  him  back  home  would  leave  in  the  
morning. Sam’s head was full of everything he had seen in the Zoo. And before he turned out the  
light he took his notebook out of his rucksack and wrote a poem. This is what he wrote:  
            SAM BEAVER’S POEM  
            Of all the places on land and sea,  
            Philadelphia’s zoo is the place for me.  
            There’s plenty to eat and a lot to do,  
            There’s a Frigate Bird and a tiny Shrew;  
            There’s a Vesper Rat and a Two-toed Sloth,  
            And it’s fair to say that I like them both.  
            There’s a Canada Goose and a Polar Bear  
            And things that come from Everywhere.  
            There are lots of things that you’ve never seen  
            Like the Kinkajou and the Wolverine.  
            You really have to go the zoo  
            Too see a newborn Wallaroo  
            Or a Fallow Deer or a White-tailed Gnu.  
            There are wondrous birds on a beautiful lake,  
            There’s a Timber Wolf and a Hognose Snake.  
            There are animals with great appeal,  
            Like the Hummingbird and the Harbor Seal.  
            There are pony rides, there are birds of prey,  
            And something happening every day.  
            There are Wolves and Foxes, Hawks and Owls,  
            And a great big pit where the Lion prowls.  
            There are quiet pools and pleasant cages,  
            Where Reptiles lie and the Tiger rages.  
            The houses are clean, the keepers are kind,  
            And one Baboon has a pink behind.  
            The entire aim of a well-kept zoo  
            Is to bring the animal world to You.  
                                    (signed) Sam Beaver  
  
Sam left the poem on the Head Man’s desk.  

----------------------- Page 60-----------------------

                                                           Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                           http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

      Early the next morning, long before the Zoo people came to work, Sam left Philadelphia by  
plane. Louis and Serena went along with him to the airport. They wanted to wave good-bye. The  
also planned to leave Philadelphia, right then and there, and fly back to Montana. When the airport  
officials saw two big  white birds  out on the airstrip, they raised a terrible  fuss.  The  men in the  
control  tower  sent  warning  messages  to  the  pilots  of  incoming  planes.  Members  of  the  ground  
crew came piling out of buildings and rushed toward Louis and Serena to chase them away. Sam  
was sitting by a window inside his plane, ready for takeoff, and he saw the whole thing.  
      Louis grabbed his trumpet.  
      “Off we go,” he played, “into the wild blue yonder!” The notes carried across the airport and  
startled everyone. “Ko-hoh! Ko-hoh!” called Louis. He put  his trumpet away and started racing  
down the airstrip, with Serena racing after him. Just then, Sam’s plane started into the wind for the  
takeoff. The two swans flew alongside. They were in the air before the plane was, and flying fast.  
Sam waved  from the  window. Louis’s lifesaving  medal  gleamed in the  morning sun. The  plane  
rose and started to climb. Louis and Serena climbed fast, too.  
      “Good-bye, Philadelphia!” thought Louis. “Good-bye, Bird Lake! Good-bye, nightclub!”  
      The plane, with its greater speed, gained on the swans. They began to drop behind. For a little  
while they headed west, following the plane. Then Louis motioned to Serena that he was going to  
change course. He banked to the left and swung toward the south.    
      “We’ll go home by the southern route and take our time about it,” he said to himself.  
      And  that’s what they  did. They  flew south across Maryland and  Virginia. They flew  south  
across the Carolinas. They spent a night in Yemassee and saw huge oak trees with moss hanging  
from their branches. They visited the great swamps of Georgia and saw the alligator and listened  
to  the  mockingbird.  They  flew  across  Florida  and  spent  a  few  days  in  a  bayou  where  doves  
moaned in the cedars and little lizards crawled in the sun. They turned west into Louisiana. Then  
they turned north toward their home in Upper Red Rock Lake.  
      What a triumphant return it would be! When he left Montana, Louis had been penniless. Now  
he was rich. When he left, he had been unknown. Now he had his bride by his side—the swan that  
he  loved.  His  medal  was  around  his  neck,  his  precious  trumpet  dangled  in  the  breeze,  his  
hard-earned money was in the bag. He had accomplished what he had set out to do. All in a few  
short months!  
      Freedom felt so wonderful! Love felt so good!  
  
  

                                            Chapter 20    Billings  
      On a bright clear day in January, Louis and Serena came home to the Red Rock Lakes. From  
among the thousands of waterfowl, they quickly found the members of their own families—their  
fathers and  mothers and sisters and brothers. It was a noisy homecoming. Everybody wanted to  
say hello at once. Ko-hoh, ko-hoh, ko-hoh! The wanderers were home at last.  
      Louis’s father, the old cob, made a graceful speech—rather long, but sincere.  
      Louis raised his trumpet and played “There’s no place like home. Home, home sweet home!”  
There was a great deal of gossip among the waterfowl about Louis’s having persuaded Serena to  
be his wife. Everybody congratulated the happy couple. And all the brothers and sisters of Louis  
and Serena gathered around and looked at Louis’s possessions. They were much impressed by his  
worldly  goods.  They  liked  the  lifesaving  medal,  they  loved  the  sound  of  the  trumpet,  and  they  

----------------------- Page 61-----------------------

                                                           Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                           http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

were eager to see the money in the moneybag. But Louis did not open the bag. Instead, he took his  
father  and  mother  to  one  side.  They  all  three  stepped  out  on  shore,  where  Louis  slipped  the  
moneybag off his neck and, with a blow, handed it to the old cob. Four thousand four hundred and  
twenty dollars and seventy-eight cents.  
      Then Louis took his slate and wrote a note to the owner of the music store in Billings so his  
father would have something to show him when he got there. The note said:  
            To the Storekeeper of Billings:  
            Enclosed please find $4,420.78. It will pay you  
            For the trumpet and the damage to the store.  
            Sorry about the inconvenience this has caused you.  
      The  old  cob  was  not  able  to  count  money,  and  he  was  not  able  to  read,  but  he  took  the  
moneybag and the slate and hung them around his neck. He felt sure he could now pay his debt for  
the stolen trumpet.  
      “I shall go,” he said to his wife. “I shall redeem my honor. I shall return to Billings, the scene  
of my crime – a great city, teeming with (full of) life--”  
      “We’ve head that before,” remarked his wife. “Just take the money and the note and beat it  
for Billings as fast as  you can  go. And  when  you  get there,  for  heavens’ sakes be careful!  The  
owner of that music store has a gun. He will remember that the last time he saw a swan coming at  
him he got robbed. So watch yourself! You’re on a dangerous mission.”  
      “Danger!” said the old cob. “Danger! I welcome danger and adventure. Danger is my middle  
name. I would risk my life to redeem my honor and recapture my sense of decency. I shall pay my  
debt and blot out the foul mark that sullies my good name. I shall rid myself forever of the shame  
that comes from thievery         （赃物，偷窃，偷窃事件） 
                                                              and wrongdoing. I shall—”  
      “If you don’t stop talking,” said his wife, “you won’t get to Billings before the stores close.”  
      “You are right, as usual,” replied the cob. He adjusted the moneybag and the slate for flight.  
Then he took off into the air and headed toward the northeast, flying fast and high. His wife and  
son watched him until he faded from view.  
     “What a swan!” said his wife. “You have a good father, Louis. I hope nothing happens to him.  
To tell you the truth, I’m worried.”  
  
      The old cob flew fast and far. When he spied the churches and factories and shops and homes  
of Billings, he circled once, then began his downward glide—straight for the music store.  
      “My hour has come,” he said to himself. “My moment of truth is at hand. I shall soon be out  
of debt, out from under the cloud of shame and dishonor that has cast a shadow over my life for lo  
these many months.”  
      The cob had been seen already by people down below. One of the salesmen in the music store  
was standing by the front window, looking out. When he saw the big white bird approaching, he  
yelled to the storekeeper: “Large bird approaching. Get your gun!”  
      The storekeeper grabbed his shotgun and raced to the sidewalk. The cob was low in the sky,  
gliding straight for the store.  
      The storekeeper raised his  gun. He fired both barrels in quick succession. The old cob  felt  
twinge  of  pain  in  his  left  shoulder.  Thoughts  of  death  filled  his  mind.  Looking  back,  he  saw  a  
bright red drop of blood staining his breast. But he kept going, straight for the storekeeper.  
      “The end is near,” he said to himself. “I shall die in the performance of duty. I have only a  

----------------------- Page 62-----------------------

                                                        Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                        http://www.foxitsoftware.com        For evaluation only. 

few moments remaining t olive. Man, in his folly, has given me a mortal wound. The red blood  
flows in a steady trickle from my veins. My strength fails. But even in death’s final hour, I shall  
deliver  the  money  for  the  trumpet.  Good-bye,  life!  Good-bye,  beautiful  world!  Good-bye,  little  
lakes in the  north! Farewell, spring-times I  have  known, with their passion and ardor                      !  
                                                                                                      （热情） 

Farewell, loyal wife and loving sons and daughters! I, who am about to die, salute to you. I must  
die gracefully, as only a swan can.”  
      With  that,  he  sank  to  the  sidewalk,  held  out  the  moneybag  and  the  slate  to  the  astonished  
storekeeper, and fainted away at the sight of his own blood. He lay limp on the sidewalk, to all  
appearances a dying swan.  
      A crowd quickly gathered.  
      “What’s this?” exclaimed the storekeeper, bending over the bird. “What’s going on here?”  
      He quickly read the note on the slate. Then he tore open the moneybag and began pulling out  
hundred-dollar bills and fifty-dollar bills.  
      A policeman hurried to the scene and started to hold the crowd back.  
      “Stand back!” he shouted. “The swan is wounded. Give him air!”  
      “He’s dead,” said a little boy. “The bird is dead.”  
      “He is not dead,” said the salesman. “He’s scared.”  
      “Call an ambulance!” screamed a lady in the crowd.  
      A small pool of blood formed under the neck of the old cob. He seemed lifeless. Just then a  
game warden appeared.  
      “Who shot this bird?” he demanded.  
      “I did,” said the storekeeper.  
      “Then you’re under arrest,” said the warden.  
      “What for?” asked the storekeeper.  
      “For shooting a Trumpeter Swan. These birds are protected by law. You can’t pull a gun on a  
wild swan.”  
      “Well,” replied the storekeeper, “you can’t arrest me, either. I happen to know this bird. He’s  
a thief. He’s the  one  you should arrest. He’s been here  before, and  he stole a trumpet  from  my  
store.”  
      “Call an ambulance!” cried the lady.  
      “What’s that you’ve got in your hand?” asked the policeman. The storekeeper quickly stuffed  
the money into the moneybag and held the bag and the slate behind his back.  
      “Come on, show it to me!” said the cop.  
      “I want to see it, too,” said the warden.  
      “We all want to see it!” cried a fellow in the crowd. “What’s in that bag?”  
      The storekeeper sheepishly (羞怯地) handed the moneybag and the slate to the game warden.  
The  warden  stood  straight,  put  on  his  glasses,  and  read  the  note  in  a  loud  voice:  “To  the  
Storekeeper of Billings: Enclosed please find four thousand four hundred and twenty dollars and  
seventy-eight cents. It will pay you for the trumpet and the damage to the store. Sorry about the  
inconvenience this has caused you.”  
      At the mention of the sum of money, the crowd gasped. Everyone started talking at once.  
      “Call an ambulance!” screamed the lady.  
      “I’ll have to take that money to the station house,” said the policeman. “This is a complicated  
case.  Anything  that  involves  money  is  complex.  I’ll  take  the  money  and  keep  it  safe  until  the  

----------------------- Page 63-----------------------

                                                       Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                       http://www.foxitsoftware.com       For evaluation only. 

matter is decided.”  
      “No, you won’t!” said the game warden. “The money is mine.”  
      “Why?” asked the policeman.  
      “Because,” replied the warden.  
      “Because what?” asked the policeman.  
      “Because the law says the bird is in my custody. The money was on the bird. Therefore, the  
money goes to me until this is settled.”  
      “Oh, no, you don’t!” said the storekeeper, angrily. “The money is mine. It says so right here  
on this slate. The four thousand four hundred and twenty dollars and seventy-eight cents is mine.  
Nobody’s going to take it away from me.”  
      “Yes, they are!” said the policeman. “I am.”  
      “No, I am,” said the game warden.    
      “Is there a lawyer in the crowd?” asked the storekeeper. “We’ll settle this matter right here  
and now.”  
      A tall man stepped forward.  
      “I’m Judge Ricketts,” he said. “I’ll decide this case. Now then, who saw the bird arrive?”  
      “I did,” said the salesman.  
      “Call an ambulance!” screamed the lady.  
      “I saw the bird, too,” said a small boy name Alfred Gore.  
      “O.K.,” said the judge. “Describe what happened, exactly as you saw it.”  
      The salesman spoke first. “Well,” he said, “I was looking out the window and saw a swan  
approaching. So I hollered. The boss got his gun and fired, and the bird fell to the sidewalk. There  
was a drop or two of blood.”  
      “Did you notice anything special about the bird?” asked Judge Ricketts.  
      “He carried  money,” replied the salesman. “You don’t often see any  money  on a bird, so I  
noticed it.”  
      “All right,” said the judge. “Now we’ll let Alfred Gore tell it as he saw it. Describe what you  
saw, Alfred!”  
      “Well,” said the little boy, “I was very thirsty, and so I wanted to go to a candy store and get  
something to drink.”  
      “Just tell what you saw, please, Alfred,” said the judge. “Never mind how thirsty you were.”  
      “I  was  coming  along  the  street,”  continued  Alfred,  “because  I  was  very  thirsty.  So  I  was  
coming along the street on my way to the candy store to get something to drink, and there, up in  
the sky, all of a sudden there  was a big white bird right over  me in the sky and he was sliding  
down out of the sky like this.” Alfred held out his arms and imitated the bird. “And so when I saw  
the big bird I stopped thinking about how thirsty I was and pretty soon this enormous bird, he was  
enormous, was on the sidewalk and he was dead and there was blood all over everything and that’s  
what I saw.”  
      “Did you notice anything special about the bird?” asked Judge Ricketts.  
      “Blood,” said Alfred.  
      “Anything else?”  
      “No, just blood.”  
      “Did you hear a gun?”  
      “No, just blood,” said Alfred.  

----------------------- Page 64-----------------------

                                                           Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                           http://www.foxitsoftware.com          For evaluation only. 

      “Thank you!” said the judge. “That will be all.”  
      Just   then   a   siren   started   wailing—woooaw,   woooaw,   woooaw.   An   ambulance   came  
screaming down the street. It stopped in front of the crowd. Two men jumped out. They carried a  
stretcher and set it down next to where the swan lay. The old cob lifted his head and looked around.  
“I have been at death’s door,” he thought, “and now I think I am returning to life. I am reviving. I  
shall  live!  I  shall  return  on  strong  wings  to  the  great  sky.  I  shall  glide  gracefully  again  on  the  
ponds of the world and hear the frogs and take pleasure in the sounds of night and the coming of  
day.”  
      As  he  was  thinking  these  pleasant  thoughts,  he  felt  himself  being  lifted.  The  ambulance  
attendants  put  his  slate  around  his  neck,  picked  him  up,  laid  him  gently  on  the  stretcher,  and  
carried him into the ambulance, which had a red light whirling round and around on top of it. One  
of the men placed an oxygen mask over the old cob’s head and gave him some oxygen. And away  
they drove, making a great deal of noise, to the hospital. There, he was put to bed and given a shot  
of penicillin. A young doctor came in and examined the wound where the shotgun pellet had hit  
him.  The  doctor  said  the  wound  was  superficial.  The  old  cob  didn’t  know  what  “superficial”  
meant, but it sounded serious.  
      Nurses gathered around. One of them took the swan’s blood pressure and wrote something on  
a chart. The old cob was beginning to feel very well again. It felt good to be in bed, being cared  
fro by nurses—one of whom was quite pretty. The doctor washed the wound and put a Band-Aid  
on it.  
      Meantime, back on the sidewalk in  front  of the  music store, the judge was announcing  his  
decision.  
      “On  the  basis  of  testimony,”  he  said  solemnly,  “I  award  the  money  to  the  storekeeper,  to  
make up for the loss of the trumpet and damage to the store. I am placing the swan in the custody  
of the game warden.”  
      “Your  Honor,”  said  the  warden,  “don’t  forget  that  the  storekeeper  is  under  the  arrest  for  
shooting a wild swan.”  
      “It was a case of false arrest,” said the judge wisely. “The storekeeper fired his gun at the bird  
because  he  was  afraid  his  store  would  be  robbed  again.  He  did  not  know  that  the  swan  was  
bringing money to pay for the trumpet. The gun was fired in self-defense. Everyone is innocent,  
the swan is honest, the debt is paid, the storekeeper is rich, and the case is dismissed.”  
      A cheer went up from the crowd. The warden looked sulky. The policeman looked glum . But  
the storekeeper was beaming. He was a happy man. He felt that justice had been done.    
      “I have an announcement,” he said. “I am only going to keep just enough of this money to  
pay for the stolen trumpet and the repair bills for my store. All the rest of the money will be given  
to a good cause if I can think of just the right one. Can anyone think of a worthy cause that needs  
money?”  
      “The Salvation Army,” suggested a woman.  
      “No,” said the storekeeper.  
      “The Boy Scouts?” suggested a boy.  
      “No,” said the storekeeper.  
      “The American Civil Liberties Union?” suggested a man.  
      “Nope,” said the storekeeper. “Nobody has thought of just the right place for me to send this  
money.”  

----------------------- Page 65-----------------------

                                                         Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                         http://www.foxitsoftware.com         For evaluation only. 

      “How about the Audubon Society (奥杜邦协会)?” asked a little fellow whose nose looked like  
 the beak of a bird.  

      “Great! You’ve got it!” cried the storekeeper. “A bird has been very good to me, and now I  
want to do something for birds. The Audubon Society is kind to birds. I want this money to be  
used to help birds. Some birds are in real trouble. They face extinction.”  
      “What’s extinction?” asked Alfred Gore. “Does it mean they stink?”  
      “Certainly    not,”   said   the   storekeeper.     “Extinction    is   what    happens    when     you’re  
extinct—when you don’t exist anymore because there are no others like you. Like the passenger  
pigeon  and  the  eastern  Heath  Hen  (现已灭绝的新英格兰)琴鸡 and  the  Dodo  (渡渡鸟)  and  the  
Dinosaur.”    
      “The  Trumpeter  Swan  was  almost  extinct,”  said  the  game  warden.  “People  kept  shooting  
them, like this crazy storekeeper. But now they are making a comeback.”    
      The storekeeper glared at the warden.  
      “I’ll  say they’re  making a comeback,” he said. “The swan that was just here  came back to  
Billings with four thousand four hundred and twenty dollars and seventy-eight cents and gave it  
all to me. I call that making a very good comeback. I can’t imagine where he got all that money.  
It’s a mighty funny thing.”    
      The storekeeper went back into his music store, the policeman went back to the station house,  
the judge went back to the courthouse, the  game warden walked off  down the street toward the  
hospital, and Alfred Gore, who was still thirsty, continued his journey to the candy store. All the  
rest of the people wandered away.  
        
      At the hospital, the old cob lay peacefully in bed thinking beautiful thoughts. He felt thankful  
to be alive and relieved to be out of debt.    
      It was getting dark. Many of the patients in the hospital were asleep already. A nurse came  
into the cob’s room to open his window.  
      When she came back a few minutes later to take the cob’s temperature and give him a back  
rub, the bed was empty—the room was deserted. The cob had jumped out of the window, spread  
his broad wings, and headed for home through the cold night sky. He flew all night, crossed the  
mountains, and arrived home soon after daylight, where his wife was waiting for him.    
      “How did it go?” she asked.  
      “Very well,” he said. “An extraordinary adventure. I was shot at, just as you predicted. The  
storekeeper pointed a gun at me and fired. I felt an agonizing pain in my left shoulder—which I’ve  
always  considered  the  more  beautiful  of  my  two  shoulders.  Blood  gushed  from  my  wound  in  
torrents                    , and I sank gracefully to the sidewalk, where I handed over the money and  
            （湍急的洪水） 

thus regained my honor and my decency. I was at death’s door. A great multitude                        of people  
                                                                                               （众多） 

gathered. Blood was everywhere. I became faint and passed out with dignity in front of all. The  
police arrived—dozens of them. Game wardens flocked to the scene in great numbers, and there  
was a tremendous argument about the money.”  
      “How did you know all this if were unconscious?” asked his wife.  
      “My dear,” said the cob, “I wish you wouldn’t interrupt me when I am telling the story of my  
trip. Seeing my grave condition, someone in the crowd summoned   （召集，传唤） 
                                                                                            an ambulance, and  
I was taken to the hospital, where I was put to bed. I looked very beautiful lying there, my black  

----------------------- Page 66-----------------------

                                                           Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                           http://www.foxitsoftware.com           For evaluation only. 

bill contrasting with the snowy white sheets. Doctors and nurses attended me and comforted me in  
my hour of suffering and pain. You can judge how serious my wound was when I tell you that one  
of the doctors examined it and said it was superficial.”  
      “It doesn’t look bad to me,” said his wife. “I think you just got nicked.(刻，划) If it had been  
bad, you couldn’t have flown back so soon. Anyway, superficial or not, I’m glad to see you home  
safe. I always miss you when you’re gone. I don’t know why, but I do.”  
      And with that, she placed her head across his neck and gave him a slight nudge. Then they  
had  breakfast  and  went  for  a  swim  in  an  open  place  in  the  frozen  lake.  The  cob  pulled  his  
Band-Aid off and threw it away.  
  
  

                                  Chapter 21    The Greening Spring  
  
Louis and Serena were more in love than ever. When spring came, they flew north, Louis wearing  
his trumpet and his slate and his chalk pencil and his medal, Serena wearing nothing at all. Now  
that he no longer had to work and earn, Louis felt a great sense of relief. No more would he have  
to carry a moneybag around his neck.  
      The two swans flew high and fast, ten thousand feet above the earth. They arrived at last at  
the  little  pond  in  the  wilderness  where  Louis  had  been  hatched.  This  was  his  dream—to  return  
with his love to the place in Canada where he had first seen the light of day. He escorted Serena  
from one end of the pond to the other and back again. He showed her the tiny island where his  
mother’s nest had been. He showed her the log Sam Beaver had been sitting on when Louis had  
pulled his shoelace because he couldn’t say beep. Serena was enchanted. They were in love. It was  
spring. The frog was waking from his long sleep. The turtle was coming to life again after his nap.  
The  chipmunk  felt  the  warm  air,  soft  and  kind,  blow  through  the  trees,  just  as  it  did  in  that  
springtime when Louis’s father and mother had visited the pond to nest and raise their young.  
      The sun shone down, strong and steady. Ice was melting; patches of open water appeared on  
the pond. Louis and Serena felt the changing world, and they stirred with new life and rapture (兴 
高采烈) and hope. There was a smell in the air, a smell of earth waking after its long winter. The  
trees were putting out tiny green buds, the buds were swelling. A better, easier time was at hand. A  
pair of Mallard Ducks (野鸭，绿头鸭) flew in. A sparrow with a white throat arrived and sang, “Oh,  
sweet Canada, Canada, Canada!”  
      Serena chose a muskrat lodge on which to build her nest. It was the right height above the  
water. The muskrat had built it of mud and stick. Louis ha hoped his wife might decide to make  
her nest in the same spot where his mother had built hers, but females are full of notions ;  （满脑 
          they want their own way, pretty much, and Serena knew what she was doing. Louis was so  
的想法） 

delighted when he saw her begin to construct the nest, he didn’t really care where it was. He raised  
his horn to his mouth and played the beginning of an old song called “It’s delightful to be married,  
to be-be-be-be, be-be-be-be married…” Then he helped by bringing a few pieces of coarse grass.  
      Rain or shine, cold or warm, every day was a happy day for the two swans. In time, the eggs  
were laid and the cygnets were hatched—four of them. The first sound the baby swans heard was  
the pure, strong sound of their father’s trumpet.  
      “Oh, ever in the greening spring,” he played, “By back and bough retiring…”  
      Life was gay and busy and sweet in the little lonely pond in the north woods. Once in a while  

----------------------- Page 67-----------------------

                                                           Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                           http://www.foxitsoftware.com          For evaluation only. 

Sam Beaver would show up for a visit, and they would have great times together.  
      Louis never forgot his old jobs, his old friends, or his promise to the Head Man in Charge of  
Birds in Philadelphia. As the years went by, he and Serena returned each spring to the pond, nested,  
and had their young. And each year, at the end of summer, when the moult                              was over and  
                                                                                             （脱毛） 

the  flight  feathers  grew  back  in  and  the  cygnets  were  ready  to  try  their  wings,  Louis  took  his  
family for a long pleasure trip across America. He led them first to Camp Kookooskoos, where he  
had saved the life of Applegate Skinner and won his  medal. The  camp would be closed  for the  
season, but  Louis liked  to revisit it and  wander around,  remembering the boys and  how he  had  
earned his first hundred dollars as camp bugler.  
      Then  the  swans  would  fly  to  Boston,  where  the  Swan  Boat  man  always  gave  them  a  big  
welcome. Louis would polish up his horn, blow the spit out of it and swim in front of the boats  
again, playing “Row, row, row your boat,” and the people of Boston would hear the familiar sound  
of the trumpet of the swan and would flock to the Public Garden. Then the Boatman would treat  
Louis and Serena to a night at the Ritz Hotel, while the cygnets spent the night by themselves on  
the lake, watched over by the Boatman. Serena dearly loved the Ritz. She ate dozens of watercress  
sandwiches and gazed at herself in the mirror and swam in the bathtub. And while Louis stood and  
looked out of the window at the Public Garden down below, Serena would walk round and around,  
turning lights  on and off for the fun  of it.  Then they would both  get into the bathtub and go to  
sleep.  
      From Boston, Louis would lead his family to the Philadelphia Zoo and show them Bird Lake.  
Here,  he  would  be  greeted  warmly  by  the  Head  Man  in  Charge  of  Birds.  If  the  Zoo  needed  a  
young  Trumpeter  Swan  to  add  to  its  collection  of  waterfowl,  Louis  would  donate  one  of  his  
cygnets, just as he had promised. In later years. Philadelphia was also the place where they would  
see Sam Beaver. Sam took a job with the Zoo just as soon as he was old enough to go to work. He  
and Louis always had a great time when they got together. Louis would get out his slate, and they  
would have a long talk about old times.  
      After visiting Philadelphia, Louis would fly south with his wife and children so they could  
see the great savannas where alligators dozed in the swamp water and Turkey Buzzards soared in  
the sky. And then they would return home to spend the winter in the Red Rock Lakes of Montana,  
in the lovely, serene Centennial Valley, where all Trumpeter Swans feel safe and unafraid.    
  
      The life of a swan must be a very pleasant and interesting life. And of course Louis’s life was  
particularly pleasant because he was a musician. Louis took good care of his trumpet. He kept it  
clean and spent hours polishing it with the tips of his wing feathers. As long as he lived, he felt  
grateful to his father, the brave cob who had risked his life in order to  give him the trumpet  he  
needed so badly. Every time Louis looked at Serena, he remembered that the sound of the trumpet  
was what had made her willing to become his mate.  
      Swans often live to be very old. Year after year, Louis and Serena returned in spring to the  
same small pond in Canada to raise their family. The days were peaceful. Always, just at the edge  
of dark, when the young cygnets were getting sleepy, Louis would raise his horn and play taps,  
just as he used to do at camp long ago. The notes were sad and beautiful as they floated across the  
still water and up into the night sky.  
      One  summer,  when  Sam  Beaver  was  about  twenty,  he  and  his  father  were  sitting  in  their  
camp  in  Canada.  It  was  after  supper.  Mr.  Beaver  was  rocking  in  a  chair,  resting  after  a  day  of  

----------------------- Page 68-----------------------

                                                     Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                     http://www.foxitsoftware.com       For evaluation only. 

fishing. Sam was reading a book.  

                                                      （黄昏的；朦胧的） 
     “Pop,” said Sam, “what does ‘crepuscular                            ’ mean?”  
     “How should I know?” replied Mr. Beaver. “I never heard the word before.”  
     “It has something to do with rabbits,” said Sam. “It says here that a rabbit is a crepuscular  
animal.”  
     “Probably means timid,” said Mr. Beaver. “Or maybe it means that it can run like the dickens.  
Or maybe it means stupid. A rabbit will sit right in the middle of the road at night and stare into  
your headlights and never get out of the way, and that’s how a lot of rabbits get run over. They’re  
stupid.”  
     “Well,” said Sam, “I guess the only way to find out what ‘crepuscular’ means is to look it up  
in the dictionary.”  
     “We haven’t got a dictionary here,” said Mr. Beaver. “You’ll have to wait till we get back to  
the ranch.”  
     Just then, over at the pond where the swans were, Louis raised his horn and played taps, to let  
his  children know that the  day  had come to an end.  The wind  was right, and the sound  carried  
across the swamp.  
     Mr. Beaver stopped rocking.  
     “That’s funny!” he said. “I thought I heard the sound of a trumpet just then.”  
     “I don’t see how you could,” replied Sam. “We’re alone in these woods.”  
     “I know we are,” said Mr. Beaver. “Just the same, I thought I heard a trumpet. Or a bugle.”  
     Sam chuckled. He had never told his father about the swans in the pond nearby. He kept their  
secret to himself. When he went to the pond, he always went alone. That’s the way he liked it. And  
that’s the way the swans liked it.  
     “What ever happened to your friend Louis?” asked Mr. Beaver. “Louis was a trumpeter. You  
don’t suppose he’s somewhere around here, do you?”    
    “He might be,” said Sam.  
    “Have you heard from him recently?” asked Mr. Beaver.  
    “No,” replied Sam. “He doesn’t write anymore.  
    He ran out of postage stamps, and he has no money to buy stamps with.”  
    “Oh,” said Mr. Beaver. “Well, the whole business about that bird was very queer—I never did  
fully understand it.”  
    Sam looked across at his father and saw that his eyes had closed. Mr. Beaver was falling asleep.  
There was hardly a sound to disturb the stillness of the woods.  
    Sam was tired and sleepy too. He got out his notebook and sat down at the table by the light of  
the kerosene lamp. This is what he wrote:  
    Tonight I heard Louis’s horn. My father heard it, too. The wind was right, and I could hear the  
notes of taps, just as darkness fell. There is nothing in all the world I like better than the trumpet of  
the swan. What does “crepuscular” mean?  
Sam  put  his  notebook  away.  he  undressed  and  slid  into  bed.  He  lay  there,  wondering  what  
“crepuscular” meant. In less than three minutes he was fast asleep.  
    On the pond where the swans were, Louis put his trumpet away. The cygnets crept under their  
mother’s wings. Darkness settled on woods and fields and marsh. A loon called its wild night cry.  
As Louis relaxed and prepared for sleep, all the thoughts were of how lucky he was to inhabit such  
a beautiful earth, how lucky he had been to solve his problems with music, and how pleasant it  

----------------------- Page 69-----------------------

                                                                 Generated by Foxit PDF Creator © Foxit Software 
                                                                 http://www.foxitsoftware.com               For evaluation only. 

was to look forward to another night of sleep and another day tomorrow, and the fresh morning,  
and the light that returns with the day.  
  
  

                                                          The End  
